                                                                                                          A2


A2A2       Shipboard fittings and supporting hull
(Jan 2004)
  (cont)
(Corr.1    structures associated with towing and mooring
Feb 2004)
(Rev.1     on conventional ships
July 2004)
(Rev.2       A2.0       Application and definitions
Sept 2006)
(Rev.3       Conventional ships are to be provided with arrangements, equipment and fittings of sufficient
July 2007)   safe working load to enable the safe conduct of all towing and mooring operations associated
(Corr.1      with the normal operations of the ship.
Sept 2014)
(Rev.4       This Unified Requirement is to apply to design and construction of shipboard fittings and
Oct 2016)    supporting structures used for the normal towing and mooring operations. Normal towing
(Corr.1      means towing operations necessary for manoeuvring in ports and sheltered waters
Dec 2016)    associated with the normal operations of the ship.
(Corr.2
Mar 2017)    For ships, not subject to SOLAS Regulation II-1/3-4 Paragraph 1, but intended to be fitted
(Rev.5       with equipment for towing by another ship or a tug, e.g. such as to assist the ship in case of
Sep 2020)    emergency as given in SOLAS Regulation II-1/3-4 Paragraph 2, the requirements designated
             as ‘other towing’ in this Unified Requirement are to be applied to design and construction of
             those shipboard fittings and supporting hull structures.

             This Unified Requirement is not applicable to design and construction of shipboard fittings
             and supporting hull structures used for special towing services defined as:

             •       Escort towing: Towing service, in particular, for laden oil tankers or LNG carriers,
                     required in specific estuaries. Its main purpose is to control the ship in case of failures
                     of the propulsion or steering system. It should be referred to local escort requirements
                     and guidance given by, e.g., the Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF).



             Note:

             1) Corr.1 Feb 2004 is to be applied by all Member Societies and Associates to ships
             contracted for construction after 1 Jan 2005.

             2) The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
             vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
             regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR)
             No. 29.

             3) Revision 2 of this UR is to be applied by all IACS Members and Associates to ships
             contracted for construction from 1 January 2007.

             4) Revision 3 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by all IACS Members and Associates
             to ships contracted for construction from 1 January 2007.

             5) Revision 4 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by all IACS Societies to ships
             contracted for construction from 1 July 2018.

             6) Revision 5 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by all IACS Societies to ships
             contracted for construction from 1 January 2022.


                                                   Page 1 of 10              IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                  A2



A2       •    Canal transit towing: Towing service for ships transiting canals, e.g. the Panama
(cont)        Canal. It should be referred to local canal transit requirements.

         •    Emergency towing for tankers: Towing service to assist tankers in case of
              emergency. For the emergency towing arrangements, ships subject to SOLAS
              regulation II-1/3-4 Paragraph 1 are to comply with that regulation and resolution
              MSC.35(63) as may be amended.

         IACS Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing Equipment” may be referred
         to for recommendations concerning mooring and towing.

         The net minimum scantlings of the supporting hull structure are to comply with the
         requirements given in A2.1.5 and A2.2.5. The net thicknesses, tnet, are the member
         thicknesses necessary to obtain the above required minimum net scantlings. The required
         gross thicknesses are obtained by adding the corrosion addition, tc, given in A2.4, to tnet.
         Shipboard fittings are to comply with the requirements given in A2.1.4 and A2.2.4. For
         shipboard fittings not selected from an accepted industry standard the corrosion addition, tc,
         and the wear allowance, tw, given in A2.4 and A2.5, respectively, are to be considered.

         For the purpose of this Unified Requirement the following is defined:

         •    Conventional ships means new displacement-type ships of 500 GT and above,
              excluding high speed craft, special purpose ships, and offshore units of all types. As per
              MSC.266(84), ‘Special purpose ship’ means a mechanically self-propelled ship which
              by reason of its function carries on board more than 12 special personnel.

         •    Shipboard fittings mean those components limited to the following: Bollards and bitts,
              fairleads, stand rollers, chocks used for normal mooring of the ship and the similar
              components used for normal or other towing of the ship. Other components such as
              capstans, winches, etc. are not covered by this Unified Requirement. Any weld or bolt
              or equivalent device connecting the shipboard fitting to the supporting structure is part
              of the shipboard fitting and if selected from an industry standard subject to that
              standard.

         •    Supporting hull structures means that part of the ship structure on/in which the
              shipboard fitting is placed and which is directly submitted to the forces exerted on the
              shipboard fitting. The supporting hull structure of capstans, winches, etc. used for
              normal or other towing and mooring operations mentioned above is also subject to this
              Unified Requirement.

         •    Industry standard means international standards (ISO, etc.) or standards issued by
              national association such as DIN or JMSA, etc. which are recognized in the country
              where the ship is built.

         •    The nominal capacity condition is defined as the theoretical condition where the
              maximum possible deck cargoes are included in the ship arrangement in their
              respective positions. For container ships the nominal capacity condition represents the
              theoretical condition where the maximum possible number of containers is included in
              the ship arrangement in their respective positions.

         •    Ship Design Minimum Breaking Load (MBLSD) means the minimum breaking load of
              new, dry mooring lines or tow line for which shipboard fittings and supporting hull
              structures are designed in order to meet mooring restraint requirements or the towing
              requirements of other towing service.


                                            Page 2 of 10             IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                   A2



A2       •      Line Design Break Force (LDBF) means the minimum force that a new, dry, spliced,
(cont)          mooring line will break at. This is for all synthetic cordage materials.


         A2.1      Towing

         A2.1.1 Strength

         The strength of shipboard fittings used for normal towing operations at bow, sides and stern
         and their supporting hull structures are to comply with the requirements of this Unified
         Requirement.

         Where a ship is equipped with shipboard fittings intended to be used for other towing
         services, the strength of these fittings and their supporting hull structures are to comply with
         the requirements of this Unified Requirement.

         For fittings intended to be used for, both, towing and mooring, A2.2 applies to mooring.

         A2.1.2 Arrangement

         Shipboard fittings for towing are to be located on stiffeners and/or girders, which are part of
         the deck construction so as to facilitate efficient distribution of the towing load. Other
         arrangements may be accepted (for chocks in bulwarks, etc.) provided the strength is
         confirmed adequate for the intended service.

         A2.1.3 Load considerations

         The minimum design load applied to supporting hull structures for shipboard fittings is to be:

         (1)    For normal towing operations, 1.25 times the intended maximum towing load (e.g. static
                bollard pull) as indicated on the towing and mooring arrangements plan,

         (2)    For other towing service, the ship design minimum breaking load according to IACS
                Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing Equipment” (see Notes),

         (3)    For fittings intended to be used for, both, normal and other towing operations, the
                greater of the design loads according to (1) and (2).

         Notes:

         1.     Side projected area including that of deck cargoes as given by the ship nominal
                capacity condition is to be taken into account for selection of towing lines and the loads
                applied to shipboard fittings and supporting hull structures. The nominal capacity
                condition is defined in A2.0.

         2.     The increase of the line design break force for synthetic ropes according to
                Recommendation No. 10 needs not to be taken into account for the loads applied to
                shipboard fittings and supporting hull structures.

         When a safe towing load TOW greater than that determined according to A2.1.6 is requested
         by the applicant, then the design load is to be increased in accordance with the appropriate
         TOW/design load relationship given by A2.1.3 and A2.1.6.




                                             Page 3 of 10              IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                   A2


         The design load is to be applied to fittings in all directions that may occur by taking into
A2       account the arrangement shown on the towing and mooring arrangements plan. Where the
(cont)   towing line takes a turn at a fitting the total design load applied to the fitting is equal to the
         resultant of the design loads acting on the line, see figure below. However, in no case does
         the design load applied to the fitting need to be greater than twice the design load on the line.




         A2.1.4 Shipboard fittings

         Shipboard fittings may be selected from an industry standard accepted by the Society and at
         least based on the following loads.

         (1)   For normal towing operations, the intended maximum towing load (e.g. static bollard
               pull) as indicated on the towing and mooring arrangements plan,

         (2)   For other towing service, the ship design minimum breaking load of the tow line
               according to IACS Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing
               Equipment” (see Notes in A2.1.3),

         (3)   For fittings intended to be used for, both, normal and other towing operations, the
               greater of the loads according to (1) and (2).

         Towing bitts (double bollards) may be chosen for the towing line attached with eye splice if
         the industry standard distinguishes between different methods to attach the line, i.e. figure-of-
         eight or eye splice attachment.

         When the shipboard fitting is not selected from an accepted industry standard, the strength of
         the fitting and of its attachment to the ship is to be in accordance with A2.1.3 and A2.1.5.
         Towing bitts (double bollards) are required to resist the loads caused by the towing line
         attached with eye splice. For strength assessment beam theory or finite element analysis
         using net scantlings is to be applied, as appropriate. Corrosion additions are to be as defined
         in A2.4. A wear down allowance is to be included as defined in A2.5. At the discretion of the
         Society, load tests may be accepted as alternative to strength assessment by calculations.

         A2.1.5 Supporting hull structures

         The design load applied to supporting hull structures is to be in accordance with A2.1.3.

         The reinforced members beneath shipboard fittings are to be effectively arranged for any
         variation of direction (horizontally and vertically) of the towing forces acting upon the
         shipboard fittings, see figure below for a sample arrangement. Proper alignment of fitting and
         supporting hull structure is to be ensured.



                                             Page 4 of 10              IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                   A2



A2
(cont)
                          Reinforcing
                       members beneath                       Fitting on deck
                       shipboard fittings                 (e.g. bollard, chock)




                                                   Main hull structures
                                                    (e.g. web frames,
                                                     deck stiffeners)




         The acting point of the towing force on shipboard fittings is to be taken at the attachment
         point of a towing line or at a change in its direction. For bollards and bitts the attachment point
         of the towing line is to be taken not less than 4/5 of the tube height above the base, see figure
         below.
                                                                      DESIGN LOAD ON LINE




         Allowable stresses under the design load conditions as specified in A2.1.3 are as follows:

         (1)   For strength assessment by means of beam theory or grillage analysis:

               Normal stress:       1.0 ReH;
               Shearing stress:     0.6 ReH.

               Normal stress is the sum of bending stress and axial stress No stress concentration
               factors being taken into account.

         (2)   For strength assessment by means of finite element analysis:

               Von Mises stress: 1.0 ReH.

         For strength assessment by means of finite element analysis the mesh is to be fine enough to
         represent the geometry as realistically as possible. The aspect ratios of elements are not to
         exceed 3. Girders are to be modelled using shell or plane stress elements. Symmetric girder
         flanges may be modelled by beam or truss elements. The element height of girder webs must
         not exceed one-third of the web height. In way of small openings in girder webs the web
         thickness is to be reduced to a mean thickness over the web height as per individual Class
         Society rules. Large openings are to be modelled. Stiffeners may be modelled by using shell,
         plane stress, or beam elements. The mesh size of stiffeners is to be fine enough to obtain
         proper bending stress. If flat bars are modeled using shell or plane stress elements, dummy
         rod elements are to be modelled at the free edge of the flat bars and the stresses of the


                                               Page 5 of 10                 IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                     A2


         dummy elements are to be evaluated. Stresses are to be read from the centre of the
A2       individual element. For shell elements the stresses are to be evaluated at the mid plane of the
(cont)   element.

         ReH is the specified minimum yield stress of the material.

         A2.1.6 Safe Towing Load (TOW)

         1)     The safe towing load (TOW) is the safe load limit of shipboard fittings used for towing
                purpose.

         2)     TOW used for normal towing operations is not to exceed 80% of the design load per
                A2.1.3 (1).

         3)     TOW used for other towing operations is not to exceed 80% of the design load
                according to A2.1.3 (2).

         4)     For fittings used for both normal and other towing operations, the greater of the safe
                towing loads according to 2) and 3) is to be used.

         5)     TOW, in t, of each shipboard fitting is to be marked (by weld bead or equivalent) on the
                deck fittings used for towing. For fittings intended to be used for, both, towing and
                mooring, SWL, in t, according to A2.2.6 is to be marked in addition to TOW.

         6)     The above requirements on TOW apply for the use with no more than one line. If not
                otherwise chosen, for towing bitts (double bollards) TOW is the load limit for a towing
                line attached with eye-splice.

         7)     The towing and mooring arrangements plan mentioned in A2.3 is to define the method
                of use of towing lines.

         A2.2     Mooring

         A2.2.1 Strength

         The strength of shipboard fittings used for mooring operations and of their supporting hull
         structures as well as the strength of supporting hull structures of winches and capstans is to
         comply with the requirements of this Unified Requirement.

         For fittings intended to be used for, both, mooring and towing, A2.1 applies to towing.

         A2.2.2 Arrangement

         Shipboard fittings, winches and capstans for mooring are to be located on stiffeners and/or
         girders, which are part of the deck construction so as to facilitate efficient distribution of the
         mooring load. Other arrangements may be accepted (for chocks in bulwarks, etc.) provided
         the strength is confirmed adequate for the service.

         A2.2.3 Load considerations

         1)     The minimum design load applied to supporting hull structures for shipboard fittings is
                to be 1.15 times the ship design minimum breaking load according to IACS
                Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing Equipment” (see Notes).




                                              Page 6 of 10              IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                      A2


         2)      The minimum design load applied to supporting hull structures for winches is to be 1.25
A2               times the intended maximum brake holding load, where the maximum brake holding
(cont)           load is to be assumed not less than 80% of the ship design minimum breaking load
                 according to IACS Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing
                 Equipment”, see Notes. For supporting hull structures of capstans, 1.25 times the
                 maximum hauling-in force is to be taken as the minimum design load.

         3)      When a safe working load SWL greater than that determined according to A2.2.6 is
                 requested by the applicant, then the design load is to be increased in accordance with
                 the appropriate SWL/design load relationship given by A2.2.3 and A2.2.6.

         4)      The design load is to be applied to fittings in all directions that may occur by taking into
                 account the arrangement shown on the towing and mooring arrangements plan. Where
                 the mooring line takes a turn at a fitting the total design load applied to the fitting is
                 equal to the resultant of the design loads acting on the line, refer to the figure in A2.1.3.
                 However, in no case does the design load applied to the fitting need to be greater than
                 twice the design load on the line.

         Notes:

         1.      If not otherwise specified by Recommendation No. 10, side projected area including
                 that of deck cargoes as given by the ship nominal capacity condition is to be taken into
                 account for selection of mooring lines and the loads applied to shipboard fittings and
                 supporting hull structures. The nominal capacity condition is defined in A2.0.

         2.      The increase of the line design break force for synthetic ropes according to
                 Recommendation No. 10 needs not to be taken into account for the loads applied to
                 shipboard fittings and supporting hull structures.

         A2.2.4 Shipboard fittings
         Shipboard fittings may be selected from an industry standard accepted by the Society and at
         least based on the ship design minimum breaking load according to IACS Recommendation
         No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing Equipment” (see Notes in A2.2.3).
         Mooring bitts (double bollards) are to be chosen for the mooring line attached in figure-of-
         eight fashion if the industry standard distinguishes between different methods to attach the
         line, i.e. figure-of-eight or eye splice attachment.

         When the shipboard fitting is not selected from an accepted industry standard, the strength of
         the fitting and of its attachment to the ship is to be in accordance with A2.2.3 and A2.2.5.
         Mooring bitts (double bollards) are required to resist the loads caused by the mooring line
         attached in figure-of-eight fashion, see Note. For strength assessment beam theory or finite
         element analysis using net scantlings is to be applied, as appropriate. Corrosion additions are
         to be as defined in A2.4. A wear down allowance is to be included as defined in A2.5. At the
         discretion of the classification Society, load tests may be accepted as alternative to strength
         assessment by calculations.

         Note:

         With the line attached to a mooring bitt in the usual way (figure-of-eight fashion), either of the
         two posts of the mooring bitt can be subjected to a force twice as large as that acting on the
         mooring line. Disregarding this effect, depending on the applied industry standard and fitting
         size, overload may occur.




                                               Page 7 of 10              IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                   A2


         A2.2.5 Supporting hull structures
A2
(cont)   The design load applied to supporting hull structures is to be in accordance with A2.2.3.

         The arrangement of reinforced members beneath shipboard fittings, winches and capstans is
         to consider any variation of direction (horizontally and vertically) of the mooring forces acting
         upon the shipboard fittings, see figure in A2.1.5 for a sample arrangement. Proper alignment
         of fitting and supporting hull structure is to be ensured.

         The acting point of the mooring force on shipboard fittings is to be taken at the attachment
         point of a mooring line or at a change in its direction. For bollards and bitts the attachment
         point of the mooring line is to be taken not less than 4/5 of the tube height above the base,
         see a) in figure below. However, if fins are fitted to the bollard tubes to keep the mooring line
         as low as possible, the attachment point of the mooring line may be taken at the location of
         the fins, see b) in figure below.


                                                        DESIGN LOAD ON LINE




                                               a)




                                               b)




         Allowable stresses under the design load conditions as specified in A2.2.3 are as follows:

         (1)   For strength assessment by means of beam theory or grillage analysis:


                  Normal stress:   1.0 ReH
                  Shear stress:    0.6 ReH

         Normal stress is the sum of bending stress and axial stress. No stress concentration factors
         being taken into account.

         (2)   For strength assessment by means of finite element analysis:

               Von Mises stress: 1.0 ReH.

         For strength assessment by means of finite element analysis the mesh is to be fine enough to
         represent the geometry as realistically as possible. The aspect ratios of elements are not to
         exceed 3. Girders are to be modelled using shell or plane stress elements. Symmetric girder
         flanges may be modelled by beam or truss elements. The element height of girder webs must
         not exceed one-third of the web height. In way of small openings in girder webs the web


                                              Page 8 of 10               IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                    A2


         thickness is to be reduced to a mean thickness over the web height as per individual Class
A2       Society rules. Large openings are to be modelled. Stiffeners may be modelled by using shell,
(cont)   plane stress, or beam elements. The mesh size of stiffeners is to be fine enough to obtain
         proper bending stress. If flat bars are modeled using shell or plane stress elements, dummy
         rod elements are to be modelled at the free edge of the flat bars and the stresses of the
         dummy elements are to be evaluated. Stresses are to be read from the centre of the
         individual element. For shell elements the stresses are to be evaluated at the mid plane of the
         element.

         ReH is the specified minimum yield stress of the material.

         A2.2.6 Safe Working Load (SWL)

         1)     The Safe Working Load (SWL) is the safe load limit of shipboard fittings used for
                mooring purpose.

         2)     Unless a greater SWL is requested by the applicant according to A2.2.3 3), the SWL is
                not to exceed the ship design minimum breaking load according to IACS
                Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring, Mooring and Towing Equipment”, see Notes in
                A2.2.3.

         3)     The SWL, in t, of each shipboard fitting is to be marked (by weld bead or equivalent) on
                the deck fittings used for mooring. For fittings intended to be used for, both, mooring
                and towing, TOW, in t, according to A2.1.6 is to be marked in addition to SWL.

         4)     The above requirements on SWL apply for the use with no more than one mooring line.

         5)     The towing and mooring arrangements plan mentioned in A2.3 is to define the method
                of use of mooring lines.

         A2.3        Towing and mooring arrangements plan

         1)     The SWL and TOW for the intended use for each shipboard fitting is to be noted in the
                towing and mooring arrangements plan available on board for the guidance of the
                Master. It is to be noted that TOW is the load limit for towing purpose and SWL that for
                mooring purpose. If not otherwise chosen, for towing bitts it is to be noted that TOW is
                the load limit for a towing line attached with eye-splice.

         2)     Information provided on the plan is to include in respect of each shipboard fitting:

                1.     location on the ship;

                2.     fitting type;

                3.     SWL/TOW;

                4.     purpose (mooring/harbour towing/other towing);

                5.     manner of applying towing or mooring line load including limiting fleet angle i.e.
                       angle of change in direction of a line at the fitting.

                Item 3 with respect to items 4 and 5, is subject to approval by the Society.

                Furthermore, information provided on the plan is to include:



                                               Page 9 of 10             IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                     A2


                1.     the arrangement of mooring lines showing number of lines (N);
A2
(cont)          2.     the ship design minimum breaking load (MBLSD);

                3.     the acceptable environmental conditions
                       (refer for minimum conditions to IACS Recommendation No. 10 “Anchoring,
                       Mooring and Towing Equipment” for the recommended ship design minimum
                       breaking load for ships with Equipment Number EN > 2000:

                       •    30 second mean wind speed from any direction (vW or vW* according to IACS
                            Recommendation No. 10).

                       •     Maximum current speed acting on bow or stern (±10°)).

         3)     The information as given in 2) is to be incorporated into the pilot card in order to provide
                the pilot proper information on harbour and other towing operations.

         A2.4        Corrosion addition

         The total corrosion addition, tc, is not to be less than the following values:

         1)     Ships covered by Common Structural Rules for Bulk Carriers and Oil Tankers: tc, total
                corrosion addition to be as defined in these rules.

         2)     Other ships:

                •      For the supporting hull structure, according to the Society’s Rules for the
                       surrounding structure (e.g. deck structures, bulwark structures).

                •      For pedestals and foundations on deck which are not part of a fitting according to
                       an accepted industry standard, 2.0 mm.

                •      For shipboard fittings not selected from an accepted industry standard, 2.0 mm.

         A2.5        Wear allowance

         In addition to the corrosion addition given in A2.4 the wear allowance, tw, for shipboard fittings
         not selected from an accepted industry standard is not to be less than 1.0 mm, added to
         surfaces which are intended to regularly contact the line.

         A2.6        Survey after construction

         The condition of deck fittings, their pedestals or foundations, if any, and the hull structures in
         the vicinity of the fittings are to be examined in accordance with the Society’s Rules.




                                                                                          End of
                                                                                          Document




                                              Page 10 of 10             IACS Req. 2004/Rev.5 2020
                                                                                                         A3



 A3
A3           Anchor Windlass Design and Testing
  (cont)
(Jun 2017)
(Rev.1       1.      General
Jun 2019)
             1.1     Application

             A windlass used for handling anchors, suitable for the size of chain cable and complying with
             the following criteria is to be fitted to the ship.

             1.2     Standards of Compliance

             The design, construction and testing of windlasses are to conform to an acceptable standard
             or code of practice. To be considered acceptable, the standard or code of practice is to
             specify criteria for stresses, performance and testing.

             The following are examples of standards recognized:

             SNAME T & R Bulletin 3-15:2018 - Guide to the Design and Testing of Anchor Windlasses for
             Merchant Ships
             ISO 7825:2017       Deck machinery general requirements
             ISO 4568:2006       Shipbuilding - Sea-going vessels - Windlasses and anchor capstans
             JIS F6714:1995      Windlasses




             Note:

             1. This UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies:
                     i)    when an application for certification of an anchor windlass is dated on or after
                           1 July 2018; or

                     ii)   installed in new ships for which the date of contract for construction is on or after
                           1 July 2018.

             2.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                     vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                     regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                     (PR) No. 29.

             3.      Windlass foundation structure (incl. under deck supporting structures) is not addressed
                     in this UR. Holding down arrangements are to be per 4.2 of UR S27, as applicable.

             4.      Rev.1 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies:
                     i)    when an application for certification of an anchor windlass is dated on or after
                           1st July 2020; or
                     ii)   to anchor windlasses installed in new ships for which the date of contract for
                           construction is on or after 1st July 2020.


                                                     Page 1 of 6             IACS Req. 2017/Rev.1 2019
                                                                                                   A3


         1.3   Plans and Particulars to be Submitted
A3
(cont)   The following plans showing the design specifications, the standard of compliance,
         engineering analyses and details of construction, as applicable, are to be submitted for
         evaluation:

         •     Windlass design specifications; anchor and chain cable particulars; anchorage depth;
               performance criteria; standard of compliance.

         •     Windlass arrangement plan showing all of the components of the anchoring/mooring
               system such as the prime mover, shafting, cable lifter, anchors and chain cables;
               mooring winches, wires and fairleads, if they form part of the windlass machinery;
               brakes; controls; etc.

         •     Dimensions, materials, welding details, as applicable, of all torque-transmitting (shafts,
               gears, clutches, couplings, coupling bolts, etc.) and all load bearing (shaft bearings,
               cable lifter, sheaves, drums, bed-frames, etc.) components of the windlass and of the
               winch, where applicable, including brakes, chain stopper (if fitted) and foundation.

         •     Hydraulic system, to include:

               i)     piping diagram along with system design pressure,

               ii)    safety valves arrangement and settings,

               iii)   material specifications for pipes and equipment,

               iv)    typical pipe joints, as applicable, and

               v)     technical data and details for hydraulic motors.

         •     Electric one line diagram along with cable specification and size; motor controller;
               protective device rating or setting; as applicable.

         •     Control, monitoring and instrumentation arrangements.

         •     Engineering analyses for torque-transmitting and load-bearing components
               demonstrating their compliance with recognized standards or codes of practice.
               Analyses for gears are to be in accordance with a recognized standard.

         •     Plans and data for windlass electric motors including associated gears rated 100 kW
               and over.

         •     Calculations demonstrating that the windlass prime mover is capable of attaining the
               hoisting speed, the required continuous duty pull, and the overload capacity are to be
               submitted if the “load testing” including “overload” capacity of the entire windlass unit is
               not carried out at the shop (see 4ii).

         •     Operation and maintenance procedures for the anchor windlass are to be incorporated
               in the vessel operations manual.




                                                Page 2 of 6              IACS Req. 2017/Rev.1 2019
                                                                                                A3


         2.    Materials and Fabrication
A3
(cont)   2.1   Materials

         Materials used in the construction of torque-transmitting and load-bearing parts of windlasses
         are to comply with Rules of the class society or of a national or international material
         standard. The proposed materials are to be indicated in the construction plans and are to be
         approved in connection with the design. All such materials are to be certified by the material
         manufacturers and are to be traceable to the manufacturers’ certificates.


         2.2   Welded Fabrication

         Weld joint designs are to be shown in the construction plans and are to be approved in
         association with the approval of the windlass design. Welding procedures and welders are to
         be qualified in accordance with the requirements of the class society. Welding consumables
         are to be approved by the class society in the case their type and grade fall within the scope
         of IACS UR W17 and UR W23; when their type and grade fall outside the scope of IACS UR
         W17 and UR W23, the welding consumables are to comply with the applicable Rules of the
         class society, if any, or to national or international standards.The degree of non-destructive
         examination of welds and post-weld heat treatment, if any, are to be specified and submitted
         for consideration.

         3.    Design

         Along with and notwithstanding the requirements of the chosen standard of compliance, the
         following requirements are also to be complied with. In lieu of conducting engineering
         analyses and submitting them for review, approval of the windlass mechanical design may be
         based on a type test, in which case the testing procedure is to be submitted for consideration.

         3.1   Mechanical Design

         3.1.1 Design Loads

         (a)   Holding Loads

         Calculations are to be made to show that, in the holding condition (single anchor, brake fully
         applied and chain cable lifter declutched), and under a load equal to 80% of the specified
         minimum breaking strength of the chain cable, the maximum stress in each load bearing
         component will not exceed yield strength (or 0.2% proof stress) of the material. For
         installations fitted with a chain cable stopper, 45% of the specified minimum breaking strength
         of the chain cable may instead be used for the calculation.

         (b)   Inertia Loads

         The design of the drive train, including prime mover, reduction gears, bearings, clutches,
         shafts, cable lifter and bolting is to consider the dynamic effects of sudden stopping and
         starting of the prime mover or chain cable so as to limit inertial load.




                                              Page 3 of 6            IACS Req. 2017/Rev.1 2019
                                                                                                  A3


         3.1.2 Continuous Duty Pull
A3
(cont)   The windlass prime mover is to be able to exert for at least 30 minutes a continuous duty pull
         (e.g., 30-minute short time rating corresponding to S2-30 min. of IEC 60034-1), Zcont1,
         corresponding to the grade and diameter, d, of the chain cables as follows:


                                           Grade of            Zcont1
                                            chain         N           kgf
                                              1         37.5d2      3.82d2
                                              2         42.5d2      4.33d2
                                              3         47.5d2      4.84d2
                                           Unit of d     mm          mm


         The values of the above table are applicable when using ordinary stockless anchors for
         anchorage depth down to 82.5 m.


         For anchorage depth deeper than 82.5 m, a continuous duty pull Zcont2 is:

         Zcont2[N] = Zcont1[N] + (D – 82.5) x 0.27d2

         or

         Zcont2[kgf] = Zcont1[kgf] + (D – 82.5) x 0.0275d2

         where

         D is the anchor depth, in metres.

         The anchor masses are assumed to be the masses as given in UR A1 and Recommendation
         10. Also, the value of Zcont is based on the hoisting of one anchor at a time, and that the
         effects of buoyancy and hawse pipe efficiency (assumed to be 70%) have been accounted
         for. In general, stresses in each torque-transmitting component are not to exceed 40% of
         yield strength (or 0.2% proof stress) of the material under these loading conditions.

         3.1.3 Overload Capability

         The windlass prime mover is to be able to provide the necessary temporary overload capacity
         for breaking out the anchor. This temporary overload capacity or “short term pull” is to be at
         least 1.5 times the continuous duty pull applied for at least 2 minutes. The speed in this
         period may be lower than normal.

         3.1.4 Hoisting Speed

         The mean speed of the chain cable during hoisting of the anchor and cable is to be at least
         0.15 m/sec. For testing purposes, the speed is to be measured over two shots of chain cable
         and initially with at least three shots of chain (82.5 m or 45 fathoms in length) and the anchor
         submerged and hanging free.




                                                 Page 4 of 6            IACS Req. 2017/Rev.1 2019
                                                                                                   A3


         3.1.5 Brake Capacity
A3
(cont)   The capacity of the windlass brake is to be sufficient to stop the anchor and chain cable when
         paying out the chain cable. Where a chain cable stopper is not fitted, the brake is to produce
         a torque capable of withstanding a pull equal to 80% of the specified minimum breaking
         strength of the chain cable without any permanent deformation of strength members and
         without brake slip. Where a chain cable stopper is fitted, 45% of the breaking strength may
         instead be applied.

         3.1.6 Chain Cable Stopper

         Chain cable stopper, if fitted, along with its attachments is to be designed to withstand,
         without any permanent deformation, 80% of the specified minimum breaking strength of the
         chain cable.

         3.1.7 Support Structure

         For hull supporting structures of windlass and chain cable stoppers, refer to A1.7 of UR A1.

         3.2   Hydraulic Systems

         Hydraulic systems where employed for driving windlasses are to comply with the provisions
         of the class society.

         3.3   Electrical Systems

         3.3.1 Electric Motors

         Electric motors are to meet the requirements of the class society and those rated 100 kW and
         over are to be certified. Motors exposed to weather are to have enclosures suitable for their
         location as provided for in the requirements of the class society. Where gears are fitted, they
         are to meet the requirements of the class society and those rated 100 kW and over are to be
         certified.

         3.3.2 Electrical Circuits

         Motor branch circuits are to be protected in accordance with the provisions of the class
         society and cable sizing is to be in accordance with the requirements of the class society.
         Electrical cables installed in locations subjected to the sea are to be provided with effective
         mechanical protection.

         3.4   Protection of Mechanical Components

         To protect mechanical parts including component housings, a suitable protection system is to
         be fitted to limit the speed and torque at the prime mover. Consideration is to be given to a
         means to contain debris consequent to a severe damage of the prime mover due to over-
         speed in the event of uncontrolled rendering of the cable, particularly when an axial piston
         type hydraulic motor forms the prime mover.

         3.5   Couplings

         Windlasses are to be fitted with couplings which are capable of disengaging between the
         cable lifter and the drive shaft. Hydraulically or electrically operated couplings are to be
         capable of being disengaged manually.



                                               Page 5 of 6             IACS Req. 2017/Rev.1 2019
                                                                                                   A3


         4.     Shop Inspection and Testing
A3
(cont)   Windlasses are to be inspected during fabrication at the manufacturers’ facilities by a
         Surveyor for conformance with the approved plans. Acceptance tests, as specified in the
         specified standard of compliance, are to be witnessed by the Surveyor and include the
         following tests, as a minimum.

         i)     No-load test. The windlass is to be run without load at nominal speed in each direction
                for a total of 30 minutes. If the windlass is provided with a gear change, additional run in
                each direction for 5 minutes at each gear change is required.

         ii)    Load test. The windlass is to be tested to verify that the continuous duty pull, overload
                capacity and hoisting speed as specified in 3.1 can be attained.

                Where the manufacturing works does not have adequate facilities, these tests, including
                the adjustment of the overload protection, can be carried out on board ship. In these
                cases, functional testing in the manufacturer’s works is to be performed under no-load
                conditions.

         iii)   Brake capacity test. The holding power of the brake is to be verified either through
                testing or by calculation.

         5.     On-board Tests

         Each windlass is to be tested under working conditions after installation onboard to
         demonstrate satisfactory operation. Each unit is to be independently tested for braking, clutch
         functioning, lowering and hoisting of chain cable and anchor, proper riding of the chain over
         the cable lifter, proper transit of the chain through the hawse pipe and the chain pipe, and
         effecting proper stowage of the chain and the anchor. It is to be confirmed that anchors
         properly seat in the stored position and that chain stoppers function as designed if fitted. The
         mean hoisting speed, as specified in 3.1.4, is to be measured and verified. The braking
         capacity is to be tested by intermittently paying out and holding the chain cable by means of
         the application of the brake. Where the available water depth is insufficient, the proposed test
         method will be specially considered.

         6.     Marking

         Windlass shall be permanently marked with the following information:

         (a) Nominal size of the windlass (e.g. 100/3/45 is the size designation of a windlass for 100
         mm diameter chain cable of IACS Grade 3, with a holding load of 45 % of the breaking load
         of the chain cable)

         (b)    Maximum anchorage depth, in metres.




                                                                                         End of
                                                                                         Document




                                                Page 6 of 6            IACS Req. 2017/Rev.1 2019
                                                                                                           C6



C6            Requirements for Lashing Software
(May
(cont)2024)
              C6.1      General

              C6.1.1    Application

              All seagoing dedicated container ships are to comply with these minimum requirements.

              C6.1.2    Definition

              Lashing software is an electronic data processing tool for onboard analysis of forces in
              container stacks and thereby reflects the parameters of the lashing system as described in
              the Cargo Securing Manual prepared in accordance with the Administration requirements.

              An approved lashing software is not a substitute for the approved Cargo Securing Manual. It
              is considered as a supplement to the approved Cargo Securing Manual.

              The lashing software is a ship specific tool, and the results of the calculations are only
              applicable to the ship for which it has been approved.

              C6.2      Operation Manual

              An operation manual is to be provided for the lashing software and be kept on board.

              The language of the operation manual is to be the same as the language of the approved
              Cargo Securing Manual. A translation into another language considered appropriate may be
              required.

              The operation manual should contain descriptions and instructions, as appropriate, as per the
              following list:

              - a general description of the lashing software;
              - installation;
              - function keys;
              - menu displays;
              - input and output data;
              - required minimum hardware to operate the software;
              - instruction on testing the lashing software with the test loading condition;
              - a list of all terms, definitions, error messages and warnings likely to be encountered by the
                user; and
              - in the case of error messages and warnings, there are to be unambiguous user
                instructions for subsequent action to be taken in each case.



              Note:
              1.     This Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships
              contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2025.
              2.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build
              the vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
              regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR)
              No. 29.


                                                    Page 1 of 4                        IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                                     C6


         C6.3      Functional Requirements
C6
(cont)   The lashing software is to be capable of calculating forces on containers and container
         securing equipment for any loading conditions for each container stack.

         It is also to be capable of indicating the respective permissible values in order to assist the
         master in his/her judgement on whether the ship is loaded within the approved limits. The
         following parameters are to be presented:

         - summary of ship particulars such as IMO No., length, and breadth;
         - summary of loading conditions showing relevant input parameters such as draught and
           GM;
         - stack and container positions;
         - actual stack weights verified against permissible stack weights;
         - relevant properties of securing devices, including permissible loads;
         - accelerations and other external forces such as wind containers are exposed to;
         - listing of all calculated forces on containers and container securing equipment, and
           evaluation of compliance of the calculated forces with the corresponding allowable values.

         The container and lashing arrangements in each bay on deck and in holds are to be shown
         graphically.

         The data are to be presented on screen and in hard copy printout in a clear and unambiguous
         manner.

         A clear warning is to be given on screen and in hard copy printout if any of the allowable
         forces are exceeded.

         In addition to the printout content, each page of the printout is to contain ship's identification,
         lashing software name and version number, date and time of the printout, and the title of the
         loading condition. The printout is to be paginated sequentially, and the total number of
         printout pages are to be shown.

         Units of measurement are to be clearly identified and used consistently.

         Incorrect data input by the users, such as negative draught values, are to be prohibited. An
         error message is to be prompted on screen and in hard copy printout in a clear and
         unambiguous manner.

         C6.4      Test Loading Conditions

         The lashing software is to be delivered with test loading conditions for selected stacks and
         bays covering applicable stowage patterns for containers of different dimensions contained in
         the Cargo Securing Manual, as per the Rules of the Society.

         The test loading conditions and their results are to be permanently stored in the computer
         where the lashing software is installed and be protected against unintentional or unauthorized
         modifications and access.




                                                Page 2 of 4                         IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                                 C6


         C6.5      Approval of Lashing Software
C6
(cont)   The lashing software is subject to approval by the Society and is to include:

         - verification of type approval, if any;
         - verification that the latest ship data has been used;
         - verification and approval of the test loading conditions and their results;
         - verification if requirements of C6.3 are satisfied;
         - checking of proper installation, and verification of the instrument on board in accordance
           with the approved test loading conditions;
         - checking the availability of the operation manual on board.

         In case of modifications implying changes in the ship’s design or container securing
         arrangement, the software is to be modified accordingly and re-approved by the Society.

         Any changes in software version related to the container securing calculations are to be
         reported to and be approved by the Society.

         Upon installation, the lashing software is to be verified with the approved test loading
         conditions in the presence of Society surveyor. It is to be checked that the operation manual
         for the lashing software is available on board.

         Verification by the Society does not absolve the shipowner of responsibility for ensuring that
         the information supplied into the lashing software is consistent with the current condition of
         the ship and approved Cargo Securing Manual.

         C6.6      Acceptable Tolerances

         The accuracy of the computational results from the lashing software for the particular ship, on
         which the lashing software will be installed, is to be determined by using reference
         computation results deemed appropriate by the Society.

         The tolerance of the accuracy of the results from the lashing software is to be below 1.0% of
         the allowable values. However, deviations may be accepted subject to review by the Society
         provided that there is a satisfactory explanation for the deviation and that there will be no
         adverse effects on the safety of the ship.

         C6.7      Annual and Special Survey 1

         At each annual and special survey, it is to be checked that the operation manual is available
         on board.

         The lashing software is to be checked for accuracy annually by the ship's Master by applying
         the test loading conditions. If Society surveyor is not present for lashing software check, a
         copy of the test loading condition results obtained by this check is to be retained on board as
         documentation of satisfactory testing for the surveyor's verification at the next scheduled
         survey.

         At each special survey this checking is to be done in the presence of surveyor.




         1
           "Special Survey", “Special Periodical Survey”, and "Renewal Survey" are used
         interchangeably by different Member Societies.

                                              Page 3 of 4                       IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                               C6


         C6.8      Other Requirements
C6
(cont)   The lashing software and its data are to be protected against unintentional or unauthorized
         modifications and access.


                                                                                         End of
                                                                                         Document




                                              Page 4 of 4                      IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                                        C7



C7          Approval and Certification of Container
(cont)2024) Securing Systems
(May


       C7.1    General

       All seagoing dedicated container ships are to comply with these minimum requirements.

       It is important for the safety of the ship and the protection of the cargo and personnel that the
       cargo is secured properly especially accounting for strength of the supporting structures and
       securing fittings. Hereto, a scope containing the following for approval and/or certification of
       container securing systems is defined:

           -   fixed and portable container securing fittings;
           -   arrangement plan of fixed container securing fittings;
           -   drawings of container supporting structures (container stanchions, hatch covers,
               lashing bridges, and cell guides, if any);
           -   cargo safe access plan;
           -   container stowage and securing plan;
           -   lashing software.

       C7.2    Fixed and Portable Container Securing Fittings

       Fixed container securing fittings are used to secure and support containers and are
       permanently welded to the ship structure.

       Portable 1 container securing fittings are used to secure containers and are not categorised as
       fixed container securing fittings.

       Minimum Breaking Load corresponds to the minimum load at which the first crack appears in
       the tested representative samples.

       Minimum Proof Load corresponds to the test load specified by the Rules of the Society below
       which visible permanent deformation is not allowed.

       C7.2.1 Drawings

       Drawings of fixed and portable container securing fittings showing dimensions, materials,
       design loads, and manufacturer’s markings are to be approved in accordance with the Rules
       of the Society.


       Note:
       1.     This Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships
       contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2025.
       2.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build
       the vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
       regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR)
       No. 29.

       1 “Portable” and “loose” container securing fittings are used interchangeably in different container

       securing contexts.



                                                 Page 1 of 3                          IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                                             C7


         C7.2.2 Prototype Testing
C7
(cont)   Each fixed and portable container securing fitting type is subject to prototype testing to
         determine the minimum breaking loads.

         The minimum breaking load obtained from prototype testing is to be equal to or exceed the
         design minimum breaking load.

         C7.2.3 Production Testing

         Fixed and portable container securing fittings are subject to production testing prior to
         delivery or installation.

         A number of samples from a batch of the container securing fittings is to be loaded to
         minimum proof load of the fittings, as per the Rules of the Society.

         The production testing approval documents of delivered container securing fittings are to be
         kept on board and may be included in the approved Cargo Securing Manual.

         C7.2.4 Arrangement Plan of Fixed Container Securing Fittings

         The plan detailing the arrangement of the fixed container securing fittings is to be approved.
         The arrangement plan is to include the following for all areas where the fittings are installed:

             -   The type of fixed container securing fittings such as container foundations 2 and
                 lashing eye plates
             -   Unambiguous location of installed fittings such as their location relative to clearly
                 described locations of the ship structures.

         C7.3     Drawings of Container Supporting Structures

         The drawings of the structures necessary for conducting container stowage and securing are
         subject to approval.

         The drawings are to be detailed enough to allow their model generation for structural
         analyses.

         A plan is to be provided showing all relevant design loads for structural assessment of the
         container supporting structures and their foundations.

         Structures involved in container stowage and securing include:

             -   hatch covers;
             -   container stanchions 3;
             -   lashing bridges;
             -   cell guides.




         2 Container foundations are called twistlock foundations, or base foundations in different container

         securing contexts. Likewise, “foundation” and “socket” are used interchangeably.
         3 Container stanchions are called container stools, or container pedestals in different container

         securing contexts.


                                                  Page 2 of 3                           IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                                        C7


         C7.4     Cargo Safe Access Plan
C7
(cont)   The cargo safe access plan is to be examined for its compliance with the requirements
         prescribed in MSC.1/Circ.1353/Rev.2.

         C7.5     Container Stowage and Securing Plan

         If the stowage and securing plan, as referred to in MSC.1/Circ.1353/Rev.2 4.2.1 and 4.2.2, is
         required by the Administration, the plan is subject to approval in accordance with C7.5.1 and
         C7.5.2.

         C7.5.1 Container Stowage Plan

         The container stowage plan is to include at least the following information for each container
         type the ship is designed for:

             -   longitudinal and athwartship views of under deck and on deck stowage locations of
                 containers including reefers as appropriate;
             -   alternative stowage patterns for containers of different dimensions;
             -   maximum stack masses 4;
             -   maximum stack heights with respect to approved sight lines; and
             -   maximum nominal container capacity.

         C7.5.2 Container Securing Arrangement Plan

         The container securing arrangement plan is to contain all information necessary to prepare
         lashing calculations in accordance with the Rules of the Society. The container securing
         arrangement plan is to include at least the following information:

             -   summary of ship particulars such as IMO No., length and breadth;
             -   summary of loading conditions showing relevant input parameters such as draught
                 and GM;
             -   longitudinal views of under deck and on deck stowage locations of containers as
                 appropriate showing nominal capacity;
             -   maximum stack masses;
             -   relevant properties of securing fittings, including permissible loads;
             -   graphical presentation of container and lashing arrangements in each bay on deck
                 and in holds for sample loading conditions in accordance with the Rules of the Society
                 for each container type the ship is allowed to carry;
             -   stack total mass and the sequence of masses in a stack;
             -   minimum quantity of fittings required to secure containers for the presented sample
                 loading conditions.

         C7.6     Lashing Software

         If the ship is equipped with lashing software on board as per the Rules of the Society, the
         approval is to follow the requirements of IACS UR C6.

                                                                                                    End of
                                                                                                    Document




         4 “Mass” and “weight” are used interchangeably in different container securing contexts.




                                                 Page 3 of 3                          IACS Req. May 2024
                                                                                                           D8



D8
D8          Hazardous areas
(1979)
 (Cont)
(Rev.1      D8.1 General
1990)
(Rev.2      D8.1.1 For the purpose of machinery and electrical installations, hazardous areas are
1996)       classified as in D.8.2. Hazardous areas not covered (such as, but not limited to, well test
(Rev.3      equipment areas, helicopter fuel storage areas, acetylene cylinder storage areas, battery
Feb 2021)   rooms, paint lockers, flammable gas or vapour vents and diverter line outlets) in D.8.2 are to
            be classified as in D.8.1.3.

            D8.1.2 Hazardous areas are all those areas where, due to the possible presence of a
            flammable atmosphere arising from the drilling operations, the use without proper
            consideration of machinery or electrical equipment may lead to fire hazard or explosion.

            D8.1.3 Hazardous areas are subdivided into Zones 0,1 or 2, the definitions of each category
            being as follows:

                    Zone 0 an area in which ignitable concentrations of flammable gases or vapours are
                    continuously present or present for long periods.

                    Zone 1 an area in which ignitable concentrations of flammable gases or vapours are
                    likely to occur in normal operation .

                    Zone 2 an area in which ignitable concentrations of flammable gases or vapours are not
                    likely to occur, or in which such a mixture, if it does occur, will only exist for a short time.

            D8.1.4 The hazardous areas defined in D8.2.1 – D8.2.3 are those which normally apply to
            offshore drilling units for oil and gas exploration. Equipment for well testing is to be specially
            considered, if present.

            The hazardous areas as specified may be extended or reduced depending on the actual
            arrangements in each case, by use of windshields, special ventilation arrangements,
            structural arrangements (e.g., low deck head), etc.




            Note:

            1.      Rev.3 of this Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on
                    to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on and after 1 July 2022.

            2.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                    vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                    regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                    (PR) No. 29.




                                                      Page 1 of 4             IACS Req. 1990/Rev.3 2021
                                                                                                    D8


         D8.1.5 For the purpose of D8:
D8
(Cont)   (i)     An enclosed space is considered to be a space bounded by bulkheads and decks
                 which may have doors, windows, or other similar openings.

         (ii)    A semi-enclosed location is considered to be a location where natural conditions of
                 ventilation are notably different from those on open decks due to the presence of
                 structure such as roofs, windbreaks and bulkheads and which are so arranged that the
                 dispersion of gas may not occur.

         D8.2     Classification of areas

         D8.2.1 Hazardous areas Zone 0 include:

         (i)     The internal spaces of closed tanks and piping for containing active non-degassed
                 drilling mud, oil that has a closed-cup flashpoint below 60°C or flammable gas and
                 vapour, as well as produced oil and gas in which an oil/gas/air mixture is continuously
                 present or present for long periods.

         D8.2.2 Hazardous areas Zone 1 include:

         (i)     Enclosed spaces containing any part of the mud-circulating system that has an opening
                 into the spaces and is between the well and the final degassing discharge.

         (ii)    In outdoor or semi-enclosed locations except as provided for in (iv), the area within 1,5
                 m (5 ft) of the boundaries of any openings to equipment which is part of the mud system
                 as specified in (i), any ventilation outlets of Zone 1 spaces, or any access to Zone 1
                 spaces.

         (iii)   Pits, ducts or similar structures in locations which otherwise would be Zone 2 but which
                 are arranged so that the dispersion of gas may not occur.

         (iv)    Enclosed spaces or semi-enclosed locations that are below the drill floor and contain a
                 possible source of release such as the top of a drilling nipple.

         (v)     Enclosed spaces that are on the drill floor and which are not separated by a solid floor
                 from the spaces in (iv).

         (vi)    Outdoor locations below the drill floor and within a radius of 1.5 m from a possible
                 source of release such as the top of a drilling nipple.

         D8.2.3 Hazardous areas Zone 2 include:

         (i)     Enclosed spaces which contain open sections of the mud circulating system from the
                 final degassing discharge to the mud pump suction connection at the mud pit.

         (ii)    Outdoor locations within the boundaries of the drilling derrick up to a height of 3m (10 ft)
                 above the drill floor.

         (iii)   Semi-enclosed derricks to the extent of their enclosures above the drill floor or to a
                 height of 3 m (10 ft) above the drill floor, whichever is greater.

         (iv)    Semi-enclosed locations below and contiguous with the drill floor and to the boundaries
                 of the derrick or to the extent of any enclosure which is liable to trap gases.



                                                 Page 2 of 4            IACS Req. 1990/Rev.3 2021
                                                                                                    D8


         (v)    Outdoor locations below the drill floor , within a radius of 1.5 m area beyond the zone 1
D8              area as specified in (vi) of D8.2.2..
(Cont)
         (vi)  The areas 1,5 m (5 ft) beyond the Zone 1 areas specified in D8.2.2(ii) and beyond the
               semi-enclosed locations specified in D8.2.2(iv).
         (vii) Outdoor spaces within 1,5 m (5 ft) of the boundaries of any ventilation outlet from or
               access to a Zone 2 space unless D8.2.4(b) is applicable.

         (viii) Air locks between a Zone 1 and a non-hazardous area.

         D8.2.4 Openings, access and ventilation conditions affecting the extent of hazardous zones

         Except for operational reasons access doors or other openings are not to be provided
         between:

                a non-hazardous space and a hazardous zone;

                a Zone 2 space and a Zone 1 space.

         Where such access doors or other openings are provided, any enclosed space not referred to
         under D8.2.2 or D8.2.3 and having a direct access to any Zone 1 location or Zone 2 location
         becomes the same zone as the location except that:

         (a)    an enclosed space with direct access to any Zone 1 location can be considered as
                Zone 2 if:

                (i)     the access is fitted with a gas-tight door opening into the Zone 2 space, and

                (ii)    ventilation is such that the air flow with the door open is from the Zone 2 space
                        into the Zone 1 location, and

                (iii)   loss of ventilation is alarmed at a manned station;

         (b)    an enclosed space with direct access to any Zone 2 location is not considered
                hazardous if:

                (i)     the access is fitted with a self-closing gas-tight door that opens into the non-
                        hazardous location, and

                (ii)    ventilation is such that the air flow with the door open is from the non-hazardous
                        space into the Zone 2 locations, and

                (iii)   loss of ventilation is alarmed at a manned station;

         (c)    an enclosed space with direct access to any Zone 1 location is not considered
                hazardous if:

                (i)     the access is fitted with gas-tight self-closing doors forming an air lock, and

                (ii)    the space has ventilation overpressure in relation to the hazardous space, and

                (iii)   loss of ventilation overpressure is alarmed at a manned station.

         Where ventilation arrangements of the intended safe space are considered sufficient by the
         Society to prevent any ingress of gas from the Zone 1 location, the two self-closing doors


                                                 Page 3 of 4            IACS Req. 1990/Rev.3 2021
                                                                                                   D8


         forming an air lock may be replaced by a single self-closing gas-tight door which opens into
D8       the non-hazardous location and has no hold-back device.
(Cont)
         Hold-back devices are not to be used on self-closing gastight doors forming hazardous area
         boundaries.

         D8.3 Ventilation

         D8.3.1 General

         Attention is to be given to ventilation inlet and outlet location and airflow in order to minimize
         the possibility of cross contamination. Inlets are to be located in non-hazardous areas as high
         and as far away from any hazardous area as practicable. Each air outlet is to be located in an
         outdoor area which, in the absence of the considered outlet, is of the same or lesser hazard
         than the ventilated space. Ventilation for hazardous areas is to be completely separate from
         that used for non-hazardous areas. Where passing through hazardous areas, the inlet ducts
         are also to have overpressure in relation to this area; where the ventilation duct passes
         through a hazardous area of a lower level, the ventilation duct is to have under pressure in
         relation to this area.

         D8.3.2 Ventilation of hazardous areas

         Enclosed hazardous spaces are to be provided with adequate ventilation with under pressure
         in relation to the less hazardous space or zone. The arrangement of ventilation inlet and
         outlet openings in the space is to be such that the entire space is efficiently ventilated, giving
         special consideration to location of equipment which may release gas, and to spaces where
         gas may accumulate.

         The outlet air from Zone 1 and Zone 2 spaces is to be led in separate ducts to outdoor
         locations. The internal spaces of such ducts belong to the same Zone as the inlet space. Air
         inlet ducts designed for constant relative under pressures are to be rigidly constructed to
         avoid air leaks. Fans are to be designed so as to reduce the risk that sparks may occur.
         Hazardous enclosed mud processing spaces are to be ventilated at a minimum rate of 12 air
         changes per hour.




                                                                                            End of
                                                                                            Document




                                               Page 4 of 4             IACS Req. 1990/Rev.3 2021
                                                                 D10


D10
No.        Electrical installations
(1979)
(Rev.1    Deleted in Dec 2018.
1987)
(cont)
(Rev.2
1990)
(Del
Dec 2018)




                                                         End of
                                                         Document



                                 Page 1 of 1   IACS Req. 1979/Rev.2 1990
                                                                                                   D11



D11
D11         Safety features
(1979)
 (cont)
(Rev.1      D11.1    Fire protection and extinction
1990)
(Rev.2      D11.1.1 General
1996)
(Rev.3      Fire protection arrangements and fire extinguishing systems are to be in accordance with the
Jan 2012)   Rules as specified herein. Fire control plans are to be submitted for review on which the
(Rev.4      following, as a minimum, should be clearly shown:
Dec 2021)
(Corr.1     (1)   Locations of fire control stations;
Dec 2022)
            (2)   Various fire sections enclosed by various classes of fire divisions;

            (3)   Arrangement of fire detectors and manual fire alarm stations;

            (4)   Arrangement of combustible gas detectors;

            (5)   Arrangement of hydrogen sulphide gas detectors;

            (6)   Locations of respiratory protection equipment for hydrogen sulphide;

            (7)   General alarm actuating positions;

            (8)   Arrangement of various fire-extinguishing appliances;

            (9)   Locations of Fighter’s Outfits;

            (10) Location of Helicopter Crash Kit;

            (11) Arrangement of water spray nozzles and sprinklers (if fitted);

            (12) Locations of emergency shutdown (such as oil fuel source shutdown, engine shutdown,
                 etc.) stations;

            (13) The Ventilating system including Fire dampers positions, Ventilating Fans control
                 positions with indication of identification numbers of Ventilating Fans serving each
                 section;


            Notes:

             1.   This UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on and after
                  1 January 2013.

             2.   The "contracted for construction" date means the date on which the contract to build the
                  vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                  regarding the date of "contract for construction", refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                  (PR) No. 29.

             3.   Rev.4 of this UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on
                  and after 1 January 2023.




                              Page 1 of 7                        IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                D11


         (14) Arrangement of fire/watertight doors and their remote control positions;
D11
(cont)   (15) Blowout preventer control positions;

         (16) Escape route and means of access to different compartments, decks, etc.;

         (17) Locations of Emergency Escape Breathing Devices (EEBD); and

         (18) Arrangement of emergency muster stations and life-saving appliances.

         D11.1.2 Governmental authority

         Attention is directed to the appropriate governmental authority in each case, as there may be
         additional requirements, depending on the size, type and intended service of the units as well
         as other particulars and details. Consideration will be given to fire protection arrangements
         and fire extinguishing systems which comply with the published requirements of the
         governmental authority of the country in which the unit is to be registered.

         Also, attention is directed to Chapter 9 of the IMO Code for the Construction and Equipment
         of Mobile Offshore Drilling Units, 2009, which contains minimum requirements for structural
         fire protection.

         D11.2    Fire fighting water supply

         D11.2.1 Fire pumps

         There are to be at least two independently driven fire pumps. The pumps, their source of
         power and piping and valves are to be so arranged that a fire or flooding in any one
         compartment will not put all fire pumps out of action.

         D11.2.2 Pressure

         Each fire pump is to be able to maintain a pressure of at least 350 kPa (50 lb/in2) at any
         hydrants with two 19 mm (3/4 in.) nozzles in action. In addition where a foam system is
         provided for protection of the helicopter deck, the pump should be capable of maintaining a
         pressure of 700 kPa (100 lb/in2) at the foam installation and the water consumption used for
         foam system is to be added to the pump capacity. If the water consumption for any other fire
         protection or fire-fighting purpose should exceed the rate of the helicopter deck foam
         installation, this consumption should be the determining factor in calculating the required
         capacity of the fire pumps.

         D11.2.3 Nozzles

         Dual purpose jet spray nozzles are to be fitted throughout the unit with a minimum nozzle
         diameter of 12 mm (1/2 in.) for accommodation and service spaces and with a maximum
         diameter of 19 mm (3/4 in.) for machinery spaces and exterior locations.

         D11.2.4 Supply

         (1)   At least two water supply sources (sea chests, valves, strainers and pipes) are to be
               provided and so arranged that one supply source failure will not put all supply sources
               out of action.

         (2)   For the self-elevating units, the following additional fire water supply measures are to be
               provided:


                           Page 2 of 7                       IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                  D11


         (a) Water is to be supplied from sea water main filled by at least two submersible pumping
D11      systems. One system failure will not put the other system(s) out of function, and
(cont)
         (b) Water is to be supplied from drill water system while unit lifting or lowering. Water stored
         in the drill water tank(s) is not less than 40 m3 plus engine cooling water consumptions before
         unit lifting or lowering. Alternatively, water may be supplied from buffer tank(s) in which sea
         water stored is not less the quantity as the above mentioned.

         D11.3    Fire extinguishing systems

         D11.3.1 Fixed and portable fire extinguishing systems are to be provided in accordance with
         the Rules except the requirements of D11.3.2 and D11.3.3.

         D11.3.2 Fixed fire extinguishing systems on drilling and areas

         (a)   A fixed water spray system is to be provided to protect drilling area. The minimum water
               application rate is not less than 20.4 l/min·m2, or

         (b)   At least two dual-purpose (jet/spray) fire monitors are to be installed to cover drilling
               and well test areas. The minimum capacity of each monitor is not less than 100m3/h.
               The monitors may be operated either remotely or locally. Monitor arranged for local
               operation should be sited on an accessible protected position.

         D11.3.3 Fixed fire extinguishing systems on mud processing area

         A suitable fixed foam system is to be provided. The system is to be capable of delivering
         foam solution at a rate of not less than 6.5 l/min·m2 (4.1 l/min·m2 for Aqueous Film Forming
         Foam or Film-Forming Fluoroprotein Foam) for 15 minutes. Alternatively, a gas fixed fire
         extinguishing system may be used for enclosed mud processing spaces.

         D11.4    Fire fighting equipment for helicopter facilities

         D11.4.1 General

         Where areas of a unit are designated for helicopter facilities, the fire fighting equipment as
         given in D11.4.2 and D11.4.3 are to be provided and so arranged as to adequately protect
         both the helicopter deck and fuel storage areas.

         D11.4.2 Portable fire extinguishers

         (a)   Primary extinguishers: dry powder extinguishers of a total capacity of not less than 45
               kg (100 lb).

         (b)   Back-up extinguishers: CO2 extinguishers of a total capacity of not less than 18 kg or
               equivalent, one of these extinguishers being so equipped as to enable it to reach the
               engine area of any helicopter using the deck. The back-up extinguishers are to be
               located so that they would not be vulnerable to the same damage as the primary
               extinguishers.

         D11.4.3 Fixed fire fighting systems

         (a)   Fire water system: at least two approved nozzles of jet/spray type and hoses sufficient
               in length to reach any part of the helicopter deck.




                           Page 3 of 7                        IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                  D11


         (b)   Fixed foam system: A suitable foam application system consisting of monitors or hose
D11            streams or both is to be installed. The system is to be capable of delivering foam
(cont)         solution at a rate of not less than 6 l/min·m2 (4.1 l/min·m2 for Aqueous Film Forming
               Foam or Film-Forming Fluoroprotein Foam) for at least 5 minutes.

         D11.5    Alarms and public address

         D11.5.1 General alarms

         (1)   A general alarm system is to be provided and so installed as to be clearly perceptible in
               all parts of the unit. Alarm signal devices are to be provided which will produce a
               distinctive and strong note.

         The signals used should be limited to: general emergency, toxic gas (hydrogen sulphide),
         combustible gas, fire alarm and abandon unit signals.
         The signals given over the general alarm system should be supplemented by instructions
         over the public address system.

         (2)   At least in the following spaces general alarm is to be capable of being operated:

         (a)   Main control station;
         (b)   Drilling console;
         (c)   Navigating bridge (if any); and
         (d)   Fire control station (if any).

         D11.5.2 Mud system level alarms

         A suitable audible and visual alarm to indicate significant increase or decrease in the level of
         the contents of the mud pit is to be provided at the control station for drilling operations and at
         the mud pit. Equivalent means to indicate possible abnormal conditions in the drilling system
         may be considered by the Society.

         D11.5.3 Ventilation system alarm

         See D8.2.4.

         D11.5.4 Public address

         D11.5.4.1 The public address system is to be a loudspeaker installation enabling the
         broadcast of messages into all spaces where personnel are normally present and muster
         stations. It is to allow for the broadcast of messages from navigation bridge, central control
         room, emergency response centre, engine control room, ballast control station, jacking
         control station and drilling console. It is to be installed with regard to acoustically marginal
         conditions and not require any action from the addressee. It is to be protected against
         unauthorized use.

         D11.5.4.2 The minimum sound pressure levels for broadcasting emergency announcements
         are to be:

         (1)   In interior spaces 75dB(A) and at least 20dB(A) above the speech interference level;
               and

         (2)   In exterior spaces 80dB(A) and at least 15dB(A) above the speech interference level.




                           Page 4 of 7                         IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                D11


         D11.6    Fire detection and alarm systems
D11
(cont)   D11.6.1 General

         D11.6.1.1 Spaces having a fire risk, in principle, should be provided with an automatic fire
         detection and alarm system.

         D11.6.1.2 In selecting the type of detectors, their following features should be taken into
         account:

         (a)   Capability to detect fire at the incipient stage;
         (b)   Ability to avoid spurious alarm and trips; and
         (c)   Suitability to the located environment.

         D11.6.1.3 The fire detection main indicator board is to be at a manned control station and is
         to be clearly to indicate where fire has been detected.

         D11.6.2 Machinery spaces

         Fire detectors are to be fitted in normally unattended machinery spaces.
         Detection systems using only thermal detectors, in general, are not to be permitted.

         D11.6.3 Accommodation and service spaces

         An automatic fire detection and alarm system is to be provided in all accommodation and
         service spaces.
         Accommodation space is to be fitted with smoke detectors.
         Thermal detectors are to be fitted in galleys.

         D11.6.4 Electrical rooms and control stations

         Smoke detectors are to be provided in all electrical rooms and control stations.

         D11.6.5 Drilling and mud processing areas

         Flame or thermal detectors are to be installed in open drilling and/or mud processing areas.
         Smoke detectors may be used in enclosed mud processing areas.

         D11.6.6 Manually operated alarm system

         Sufficient manual fire alarm stations are to be installed throughout the accommodation
         spaces, service spaces and control stations. One manually operated call point is to be
         located at each exit. Manually operated call points are to be readily accessible in the corridors
         of each deck such that no part of the corridor is more than 20 m from a manually operated
         call point.
         Measures are to be taken to prevent inadvertent operation of the manual call alarm system.




                           Page 5 of 7                             IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                D11


         D11.7    Combustible gas detection and alarm systems
D11
(cont)   D11.7.1 Areas for protection

         Fixed automatic combustible gas detection and alarm systems are to be provided for the
         following areas:

         a)   Cellar deck
         b)   Drill floor
         c)   Ventilation intake of positive pressure driller's cabin.
         d)   Mud pit area
         e)   Shale shaker area
         f)   Enclosed spaces containing the open components of mud circulation system from the
              bell nipple to the mud pits.
         g)   Ventilation intakes of accommodation spaces.
         h)   Ventilation intakes of enclosed machinery spaces contiguous to hazardous areas and
              containing internal combustion engines, boilers, or non-explosion proof electrical
              equipment
         i)   Air intakes to all combustion engines or machinery, including internal combustion
              engines, boilers, compressors or turbines, located outside of an enclosed machinery
              space
         j)   At each access door to accommodation spaces.
         k)   Near other openings, including emergency egress, of accommodation spaces,
              regardless if these openings are fitted with self-closing and gastight closing appliances.

         D11.7.2 Areas where protection is not required

         Fixed automatic combustible gas detection and alarm systems are not required:
         a)   Near access doors to accommodation spaces where these form part of an air-lock
              which is provided with a gas detection and alarm system between the two doors of the
              air-lock.
         b)   Near emergency egress doors which are fitted with a mechanism to prevent use other
              than in an emergency (e.g. doors fitted with security seals acting as a deterrent but
              easily breakable in a real emergency.)
         c)   Near other openings which are provided with closing appliances of non-opening type,
              e.g. bolted closed maintenance ways etc.

         D11.7.3 Alarms

         The gas detectors are to be connected to an audible and visual alarm system with indicators
         on the drill floor and in the main control station. The alarm system is to clearly indicate the
         location and concentration of the gas hazard. The combustible gas detectors are to alarm at
         not more than 25% and at 60% of the lower explosive limit (LEL).

         D11.7.4 Portable combustible gas detectors

         In addition to the fixed automatic gas detection system, two portable combustible gas
         detectors are to be provided on the unit.




                           Page 6 of 7                       IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                  D11


         D11.8    Hydrogen sulphide detection and alarm system
D11
(cont)   D11.8.1 Areas for protection

         A fixed automatic hydrogen sulphide gas detection and alarm system are to be provided for
         the following areas:

         (a)   Drill area;
         (b)   Mud processing area; and
         (c)   Well test area.

         D11.8.2 Alarms

         The detectors are to be connected to an audible and visual alarm system with indicators in
         main control room. The system is clearly to indicate where gas has been detected.
         Low level alarm set at 10 ppm and high level alarm set not higher than 300 ppm are to be
         designed. The high level alarm is to activate an evacuation alarm.
         If the alarm at the main control point is unanswered within 2 min, the toxic gas (hydrogen
         sulphide) alarm and the helideck status light is to be automatically activated.

         D11.8.3 Portable hydrogen sulphide gas detectors

         At least two portable hydrogen sulphide gas monitoring devices should be provided on the
         unit.

         D11.9    Respiratory protection equipment for hydrogen sulphide

         D11.9.1 A self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) positive-pressure/pressure-demand
         breathing equipment with full-face piece and rated for a minimum of 30 minutes is to be
         provided for each person in working areas where hydrogen sulphide may be encountered,
         and each person in other areas is to be provided with a SCBA rated for a minimum of 15
         minutes, or

         D11.9.2 A positive-pressure/pressure-demand air line breathing equipment coupled with a
         SCBA equipped low pressure warning alarm and rated for a minimum of 15 minutes is to be
         provided for each person on board the unit.

         Breathing air supply line stations are to be provided at least in the following areas:

         (a)   Living quarter;
         (b)   Muster/evacuation area;
         (c)   Drilling areas;
         (d)   Mud processing areas; and
         (e)   Other working areas.



                                                                                            End of
                                                                                            Document




                           Page 7 of 7                        IACS Req. 1979/Rev.4 2021/Corr.1 2022
D12      UR D12 was re-categorized as UR Z15 in August 2002.
(1989)




                                                               ▲
                                                               ▲
                                                                                                               D1




D1        Requirement concerning offshore drilling
(1979)
(Rev. 1   units and other similar units
1987)
(Rev. 2
1990)
                Conditions of classification
(Corr.
1995)
(Rev.3,               D1.1       Class designation
1996)                 D1.1.1     General
(Rev.4
July                  These Requirements have been developed for units intended to engage in offshore drilling
2004)                 operations, and the text reflects that development. The Requirements are to be considered
                      as minima by the member Societies of the International Association of Classification
                      Societies (IACS). The Rules of an individual Society may specify requirements which
                      exceed those contained herein. In addition, particular National Governments may have reg-
                      ulations which might be in excess of these Requirements.

                      Each member Society is prepared to offer assistance, upon the request of an owner or
                      designer, in evaluating a specific design against published National regulations. These
                      Requirements shall not apply to those units contracted for construction prior to the effec-
                      tive date of their adoption into the Rules, unless specially requested by an owner.

                      Mobile offshore drilling units built in accordance with the Rules or their equivalent will
                      then be assigned a class symbol by the Society, followed by an appropriate designation
                      applicable to the type of unit being classed.

                      Units will be retained in classification provided they are found to be maintained in accor-
                      dance with the Rules upon completion of prescribed Surveys in accordance with D–12.

                      D1.1.2 Other similar units
                      Other special purpose units, which do not engage in drilling operations but which have
                      configurations and modes of operation similar to drilling units, may be considered for clas-
                      sification by the Society, on the basis of the Requirements as found to be applicable, and
                      the relevant Rules. In addition, evaluation must be made of other possible loading condi-
                      tions peculiar to the type of unit under consideration. Calculations substantiating the ade-
                      quacy of the design are to be submitted to the Society. Machinery and electrical installa-
                      tions, etc., for other special purpose units will be subject to approval by the Society, as
                      found to be applicable.

                      D1.1.3 Items covered by the Requirements
                      The items listed below, where applicable, are covered by the Requirements and are subject
                      to approval by the Society:

                               Material
                               Structural strength
                               Welding
                               Stability, intact and damaged
                               Weathertight/watertight integrity
                               Temporary or emergency mooring equipment
                               Jacking system
                               Propulsion machinery, including shafts and propellers
                               Steering gear and rudders
                               Auxiliary machinery
                               Pumping and piping systems, including valves
                               Boilers and Pressure Vessels
                               Electrical installations
                               Protection against fire and explosion

          Note:
          1) The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
          vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details regard-
          ing the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR) No.
          29.

                                                             D1-1                  IACS Req. 1990/Rev.4 July 2004
D1




D1                         The Requirements do not cover structural details of industrial items used exclusively in
                           drilling or related operations. Machinery, electrical and piping systems used exclusively for
cont’d                     industrial purposes are not covered by the Requirements, except in so far as their design or
                           arrangement may affect the safety of the unit. Determination of the adequacy of sea bed
                           conditions, regarding bearing capacity, resistance to possible sliding and anchor holding
                           capability, is not covered by the Requirements. The assessment of the required holding
                           capacity, arrangement and operation of position mooring equipment and dynamic position-
                           ing equipment used for station-keeping activities in connection with the unit’s operation is
                           the responsibility of the owner, and is not included in the Requirements.

                           D1.1.4 Ice strengthening
                           Units designed to be located in areas where ice strengthening may be necessary will be spe-
                           cially considered and, provided that the unit is reinforced as necessary for operation in the
                           specified ice conditions to the satisfaction of the Society, an appropriate designation will be
                           added to the descriptive notes published by the Society.

                           D1.1.5 Temporary or emergency mooring equipment
                           For purposes of temporary or emergency mooring, units are to be equipped with anchors
                           and cables in accordance with the Rules.

                           D1.1.6     Requirements for position keeping systems and components are contained in
                           D3.11.


                           D1.2       Novel features

                           D1.2.1 Units which contain novel features of design, with respect to buoyancy, elevating
                           arrange-ments, structural arrangements, machinery, equipment, etc., to which the
                           Requirements are not directly applicable, may be classed, when approved by the Society on
                           the basis that the Rules, in so far as applicable, have been complied with and that special
                           consideration has been given to the novel features based on the best information available
                           at the time.


                           D1.3       Submissions

                           D1.3.1 Hull and structural plans and design data
                           Plans showing the scantlings, arrangements and details of the principal parts of the struc-
                           ture of each unit to be built under the Society’s survey are to be submitted for approval
                           before construction commences. These drawings are to clearly indicate the scantlings, types
                           and grades of materials, joint details and welding, or other methods of connection. These
                           plans are to include the following, where applicable:

                                    General arrangement
                                    Inboard and outboard profile
                                    Summary of distributions of fixed and variable weights
                                    Plan indicating design loading for all decks
                                    Transverse sections showing scantlings
                                    Longitudinal sections showing scantlings
                                    Decks, including helicopter deck
                                    Framing
                                    Shell plating
                                    Watertight bulkheads and flats
                                    Structural bulkheads and flats
                                    Tank boundaries with location of overflows
                                    Pillars and girders
                                    Diagonals and struts
                                    Legs
                                    Structure in way of jacking or other elevating arrangements
                                    Stability columns and intermediate columns
                                    Hulls, pontoons, footings, pads or mats




     IACS Req. 1990/Rev.4 July 2004                             D1-2
                                                                                                     D1




D1              Superstructures and deck houses
                Arrangement and details of watertight doors and hatches
cont’d          Anchor handling arrangements
                Welding details and procedures
                Lines or offsets
                Curves of form or equivalent data
                Cross curves of stability or equivalent data
                Wind heeling moment curves or equivalent data
                Capacity plan
                Tank sounding tables
                Corrosion control arrangements
                Methods and locations for non-destructive testing

                In addition to the above, an arrangement plan of watertight compartmentation
                should be submitted as early in the design stage as possible, for review of damage
                stability. This drawing is to indicate the watertight bulkheads, decks and flats and
                all openings therein. Doors, hatches, ventilators, etc., and their means of closure, are
                to be indicated. Piping and ventilation systems should be shown in sufficient detail
                to evaluate their effects on the watertight integrity of the unit after incurring dam-
                age.

         D1.3.2 Machinery plans and data
         Plans are to be submitted showing the arrangements and details of all propulsion and aux-
         iliary machinery, steering gear, boilers and pressure vessels, electrical systems, jacking
         systems, bilge and ballast systems, fire extinguishing systems, and other pumps and pip-
         ing systems as described in D9, D10 and D11 and as required by the Rules. A description
         of the jacking system is to be submitted.

         D1.3.3 Calculations
         The following data and calculations are to be submitted in conjunction with the scantling
         plans, as may be applicable:
                Structural analysis for relevant loading conditions
                Resultant forces and moments from wind, waves, current, mooring and other envi-
                ronmental loadings taken into account in the structural analysis.
                Effects of icing on structural loading, stability and windage area.
                Stability calculations, both intact and damaged, over the appropriate range of drafts,
                including the transit conditions.
                Significant operational loads from drilling derrick and associated equipment, such
                as riser tensioners, on supporting structures, and other similar type significant load-
                ings.
                Calculations substantiating adequacy of structure to transmit forces between legs
                and hull through the jacking or other elevating system.
                Evaluation of the unit’s ability to resist overturning while bearing on the sea bed.

         Submitted calculations are to be suitably referenced. Results from relevant model tests or
         dynamic response calculations may be submitted as alternatives or as substantiation for the
         required calculations.


         D1.4     Materials

         D1.4.1 The Requirements are intended for units to be constructed of materials manufac-
         tured and tested in accordance with the Rules. Where it is intended to use materials man-
         ufactured by different processes or having different properties, their use will be specially
         considered by the Society.


         D1.5     Welding

         D1.5.1 Welding is to comply with the Rules. The Society is to be satisfied that all
         welders to be employed in the construction of units to be classed are properly qualified in




                                                                        IACS Req. 1990/Rev.4 July 2004
                                   D1-3
D1




D1                         the type of work proposed and in the proper use of the welding processes and procedures
                           to be followed. The methods and locations for non-destructive testing of welds are to be
cont’d                     submitted to the Society.


                           D1.6      Testing

                           D1.6.1 Upon completion of work, compartments, decks, bulkheads, etc., are to be test-
                           ed, as specified by the Society.

                           D1.7      Operating booklet

                           An Operating Booklet or equivalent is to be placed on board each unit. The booklet should
                           include the following information, as applicable to the particular unit, so as to provide suit-
                           able guidance to the operating personnel with regard to safe operation of the unit:

                                  General description of the unit
                                  Pertinent data for each approved mode of operation, including design and variable
                                  loading, environmental conditions, assumed sea bed conditions, draft, etc.
                                  Minimum anticipated atmospheric and sea temperatures.
                                  General arrangement showing watertight compartments, closures, vents, allowable
                                  deck loadings, etc. If permanent ballast is to be used, the weight, location and sub-
                                  stance used are to be clearly indicated.
                                  Hydrostatic curves or equivalent data.
                                  Capacity plan showing capacities of tanks, centres of gravity, free surface correc-
                                  tions, etc.
                                  Instructions for operation, including precautions to be taken in adverse weather,
                                  changing mode of operations, any inherent limitations of operations, etc.
                                  Plans and description of the ballast system and instructions for ballasting.
                                  Hazardous areas plan.
                                  Light ship data based on the results of an inclining experiment, etc.
                                  Stability information in the form of maximum KG-draught curve, or other suitable
                                  parameters based upon compliance with the required intact and damaged stability
                                  criteria.
                                  Representative examples of loading conditions for each approved mode of opera-
                                  tion, together with means for evaluation of other loading conditions.
                                  Details of emergency shutdown procedures for electrical equipment.
                                  Identification of the helicopter used for the design of the helicopter deck.


                           D1.8      Construction Booklet
                           A set of plans showing the exact location and extent of application of different grades and
                           strengths of structural materials, together with a description of the material and welding
                           procedures employed, is to be placed aboard the unit. Any other relevant construction infor-
                           mation is to be included in the booklet, including restrictions or prohibitions regarding
                           repairs or modifications.
                                                                                                                    END




         IACS Req. 1990/Rev.4 July 2004
                                                                D1-4
                                                                                                    D2




D2        Definitions
(1979)
(Rev. 1
1990)
Rev. 2    D2.1       General
1996)
          D2.1.1 The term ‘unit’ as used herein is intended to mean any mobile offshore structure
          or vessel, whether designed for operation afloat or supported by the sea bed, built in accor-
          dance with the Requirements and classed by a member Society, and includes the entire
          structure and components covered by the Requirements. The term ‘drilling unit’ as used
          herein means any unit intended for use in offshore drilling operations for the exploration
          or exploitation of the subsea resources. The term ‘self-propelled unit’ as used herein refers
          to a unit which is designed for unassisted passage. All other units are considered as non-
          self-propelled.

          D2.1.2 The term ‘Requirements’ as used herein refers to the ‘International Association
          of Classification Societies’ requirements concerning mobile offshore drilling units and
          other similar units (D1 – D11).

          D2.1.3 The term ‘Society’ as used herein refers to the individual member Classification
          Society.

          D2.1.4 The term ‘Rules’ as used herein refers to the currently applicable Rules of the
          Society.

          D2.2       Types of drilling units

          D2.2.1     Self-elevating drilling units

          Self-elevating drilling units have hulls with sufficient buoyancy to safely transport the unit
          to the desired location, after which the hull is raised to a predetermined elevation above the
          sea surface on its legs, which are supported on the sea bed. Drilling equipment and sup-
          plies may be transported on the unit, or may be added to the unit in its elevated position.
          The legs of such units may penetrate the sea bed, may be fitted with enlarged sections or
          footings to reduce penetration, or may be attached to a bottom pad or mat.

          D2.2.2     Column stabilized drilling units

          Column stabilized drilling units depend upon the buoyancy of widely spaced columns for
          flotation and stability for all afloat modes of operation or in the raising or lowering of the
          unit, as may be applicable. The columns are connected at their top to an upper structure
          supporting the drilling equipment. Lower hulls or footings may be provided at the bottom
          of the columns for additional buoyancy or to provide sufficient area to support the unit on
          the sea bed. Bracing members of tubular or structural sections may be used to connect the
          columns, lower hulls or footings and to support the upper structure. Drilling operations
          may be carried out in the floating condition, in which condition the unit is described as a
          semisubmersible, or when the unit is supported by the sea bed, in which condition the unit
          is described as a submersible. A semisubmersible unit may be designed of operate either
          floating or supported by the sea bed, provided each type of operation has been found to be
          satisfactory.

          D2.2.3      Surface type drilling units
                   (a)    Ship type drilling units are seagoing ship-shaped units having a displace-
                          ment-type hull or hulls, of the single, catamaran or trimaran types, which
                          have been designed or converted for drilling operations in the floating con-
                          dition. Such types have propulsion machinery.
                   (b)    Barge type drilling units are seagoing units having a displacement type hull
                          or hulls, which have been designed or converted for drilling operations in the
                          floating condition. These units have no propulsion machinery.
                                                                                                    ▲




                                                        D2-1
                                                                                         IACS Req. 1996
D2




D2               D2.2.4    Other types of drilling units
cont’d           Units which are designed as mobile offshore drilling units and which do not fall into the
                 above mentioned categories will be treated on an individual basis and be assigned an appro-
                 priate classification designation.


                 D2.3     Dimensions

                 D2.3.1    General

                 Extreme dimension, such as length, breadth, depth, etc., are used to define the overall size
                 of the unit, and these together with other relevant dimensions, will be published by the
                 Society.

                 D2.3.2 Draught
                 The moulded draught is the vertical distance measured from the moulded base line to the
                 assigned load line. Certain components of a unit’s structure, machinery or equipment may
                 extend below the moulded base line.


                 D2.4     Water depth

                 D2.4.1 The water depth as used herein is the vertical distance from the sea bed to the
                 mean low water level plus the height of astronomical and storm tides.

                 D2.5     Moulded base line

                 D2.5.1 The moulded base line is a horizontal line extending through the upper surface of
                 the bottom plating.


                 D2.6       Lightweight
                 D2.6.1 Lightweight is defined as the weight of the complete unit with all its permanent-
                 ly installed machinery, equipment and outfit, including permanent ballast, spare parts nor-
                 mally retained on board and liquids in machinery and piping to their normal working lev-
                 els, but does not include liquids in storage or reserve supply tanks, items of consumable or
                 variable loads, stores or crew and their effects.


                 D2.7     Weathertight means that in any sea conditions water will not penetrate into the
                 unit.


                 D2.8      Watertight means that capability of preventing the passage of water through
                 structure in any direction under the head of water for which the surrounding structure is
                 designed.


                 D2.9      Downflooding means any flooding of the interior or any part of the buoyant struc-
                 ture of a unit through openings which cannot be closed weathertight, watertight or which
                 are required for operations reasons to be left open in all weather conditions, as appropriate
                 for the intact and damage stability criteria.


                 D2.10    Modes of Operation

                 D2.10.1 A mode of operation is a condition or manner in which a unit may operate or
                 function while on location or in transit. Insofar as the Requirements are concerned, the
                 approved modes of operation of a unit should include the following:
                                                                                                           ▲




                                                     D2-2
IACS Req. 1996
                                                                                                 D2




D2       (i)     Operating conditions: Conditions wherein a unit is on location for purposes of
                 drilling or other similar operations, and combined environmental and operational
cont’d           loadings are within the appropriate design limits established for such operations.
                 Unit may be either afloat or supported on the sea bed, as applicable.

         (ii)    Severe storm conditions: A condition during which a unit may be subjected to the
                 most severe environmental loadings for which the unit is designed. Drilling or sim-
                 ilar operations may have been discontinued due to the severity of the environmen-
                 tal loadings. Unit may be either afloat or supported on the sea bed, as applicable.

         (iii)   Transit conditions: All unit movements from one geographical location to another.




                                                                                              ▲
                                                                                              ▲




                                                    D2-3
                                                                                     IACS Req. 1996
                                                                                                      D3


D3
D3           General design parameters
(1979)
(cont)
(Rev.1       D3.1      Material
1987)
(Rev.2       D3.1.1 Unless otherwise specified, the Requirements are intended for units to be
1989)        constructed of hull structural steel, manufactured and having the properties as specified in the
(Rev.3       Rules. Where it is proposed to use steel or other material having properties differing from
1990)        those specified in the Rules, the specification and properties of such material shall be
(Rev.4       submitted to the Society for consideration and special approval. Due consideration is to be
1996)        given to the ratio of yield to ultimate strength of the materials to be used, and to their
(Corr.       suitability with regard to structural location and to design temperatures.
July 2001)
(Corr.2      D3.2      Scantlings
Oct 2007)
(Rev.5       D3.2.1 Scantlings of the major structural elements of the unit are to be determined in
Jan 2012)    accordance with the Requirements as set forth herein. Scantlings of structural elements
(Rev.6       which are subject to local load only, and which are not considered to be effective components
Nov 2018)    of the primary structural frame of the unit, shall comply with the applicable requirements of
             the Rules.

             D3.2.2 Surface type drilling units are to have scantlings that meet the Rules. Also, special
             consideration is to be given to the items noted in D6.

             D3.2.3

             (a)    Where the unit is fitted with an acceptable corrosion protection system, the scantlings
                    may be determined from D3.4 in conjunction with allowable stresses given in D3.5, in
                    which case no corrosion allowance is required. If scantlings are determined from the
                    Rules, reductions for corrosion protection may be as permitted by the Rules.

             (b)    Where no corrosion protection system is fitted or where the system is considered by the
                    Society to be inadequate, an appropriate corrosion allowance will be required on
                    scantlings determined from D3.4 and D3.5, and no reduction will be permitted on
                    scantlings determined by the use of the Rules.




             Notes:

             1.     Rev.5 of this UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on
                    and after 1 January 2013.

             2.     The "contracted for construction" date means the date on which the contract to build the
                    vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                    regarding the date of "contract for construction", refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                    (PR) No. 29.

             3.     Rev.6 of this UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on
                    and after 1 January 2020.



                                                    Page 1 of 18           IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                  D3


         D3.3      Structural design loadings
D3
(cont)   D3.3.1 General

         A unit’s modes of operation are to be investigated using realistic loading conditions, including
         gravity loadings together with relevant environmental loadings due to the effects of wind,
         waves, currents, ice and, where deemed necessary by the owner (designer), the effects of
         earthquake, sea bed supporting capabilities, temperature, fouling, etc. Where applicable, the
         design loadings indicated herein are to be adhered to all types of mobile offshore drilling
         units. The owner (designer) will specify the environmental conditions for which the unit is to
         be approved. Where possible, the design environmental criteria determining the loads on the
         unit and its individual elements should be based upon significant statistical information and
         should have a return period (period of recurrence) of at least 50 years for the most severe
         anticipated environment. If a unit is restricted to seasonal operations in order to avoid
         extremes of wind and wave, such seasonal limitations must be specified.

         D3.3.2 Wind loadings

         Sustained and gust velocities, as relevant, are to be considered when determining wind
         loadings. Sustained wind velocities specified by the owner (designer) are not to be less than
         25,8 m/s (50 knots). However, for unrestricted service, the wind criteria for intact stability
         given in D3.7.2 are also to be applicable for structural design considerations, for all modes of
         operation, whether afloat or supported by the sea bed. Pressures and resultant forces are to
         be calculated to the satisfaction of the Society. Where wind tunnel data obtained from tests
         on a representative model of the unit by a recognized laboratory are submitted, these data
         will be considered for the determination of pressures and resulting forces.

         D3.3.3 Wave loadings

         (a)    Design wave criteria specified by the owner (designer) may be described either by
                means of design wave energy spectra or deterministic design waves having appropriate
                shape, size and period. Consideration is to be given to waves of less than maximum
                height where, due to their period, the effects on various structural elements may be
                greater.

         (b)    The forces produced by the action of waves on the unit are to be taken into account in
                the structural design, with regard to forces produced directly on the immersed elements
                of the unit and forces resulting from heeled positions or accelerations due to its motion.
                Theories used for the calculation of wave forces and selection of relevant coefficients
                are to be acceptable to the Society.

         (c)    Consideration is to be given to the possibility of wave induced vibration.

         D3.3.4 Current loadings

         Consideration should be given to the possible superposition of current and waves. In those
         cases where this superposition is deemed necessary, the current velocity should be added
         vectorially to the wave particle velocity. The resultant velocity is to be used to compute the
         total force.

         D3.3.5 Loadings due to vortex shedding

         Consideration should be given to the possibility of flutter of structural members due to von
         Karman vortex shedding.



                                                Page 2 of 18           IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                   D3


         D3.3.6 Deck loadings
D3
(cont)   As indicated in D1.3, a loading plan is to be prepared for each design. This plan is to show
         the maximum design uniform and concentrated loadings for all areas for each mode of
         operation. Design loadings are not to be less than:

         (i)     Crew spaces (walkways, general traffic areas, etc.)

                  4,5 kN/m2 (94 lb/ft2)

         (ii)    Work areas

                  9 kN/m2 (188 lb/ft2)

         (iii)   Storage areas

                  13 kN/m2 (272 lb/ft2)

         (iv)    Helicopter platform

                  2 kN/m2 (42 lb/ft2)

         D3.4      Structural analysis

         D3.4.1 The primary structure of the unit is to be analysed using the loading conditions
         stipulated below and the resultant stresses are to be determined. Sufficient conditions,
         representative of all modes of operation, are to be considered, to enable critical design cases
         to be determined. Calculations for relevant conditions are to be submitted for review. The
         analysis should be performed using an appropriate calculation method and should be fully
         documented and referenced.

         For each loading condition considered, the following stresses are to be determined for
         comparison with the appropriate allowable stresses given in D3.4.3 or D3.5:

         (i)     Stresses due to static loadings only, in calm water conditions, where the static loads
                 include service load such as operational gravity loadings and weight of the unit, with the
                 unit afloat or resting on the sea bed, as applicable.

         (ii)    Stresses due to combined loadings, where the applicable static loads in (i) are
                 combined with relevant design environmental loadings, including acceleration and
                 heeling forces.

         D3.4.2

         (a)     Local stresses, including those due to circumferential loading on tubular members, are
                 to be added to the primary stresses to determine total stress levels.

         (b)     The scantlings are to be determined on the basis of criteria which combine, in a rational
                 manner, the individual stress components acting on the various structural elements of
                 the unit. This method is to be acceptable to the Society. (See D3.4.3)

         (c)     The critical buckling stress of structural elements is to be considered, where
                 appropriate, in relation to the computed stresses.




                                                 Page 3 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                   D3


         (d)    When computing bending stresses, the effective flange areas are to be determined in
D3              accordance with ‘effective width’ concepts acceptable to the Society. Where
(cont)          appropriate, elastic deflections are to be taken into account when determining the
                effects of eccentricity of axial loading, and the resulting bending moments
                superimposed on the bending moments computed for other types of loadings.

         (e)    When computing shear stresses in bulkheads, plate girder webs of hull side plating,
                only the effective shear area of the web is to be considered. In this regard, the total
                depth of the girder may be considered as the web depth.

         D3.4.3

         (a)    For plated structures, members may be designed according to the von Mises equivalent
                stress criterion, where the equivalent stress σ e is defined as follows:


         σ e = σ x 2 + σ y 2 − σ xσ y + 3τ xy 2
         where

         σx     = stress in the x direction

         σy     = stress in the y direction

         τ xy   = shear stress in the x–y plane.

         The equivalent stress in plate elements clear of discontinuities should generally not exceed
         0,7 and 0,9 of the yield strength of the material, for the loading conditions given in D3.4.1(i)
         and (ii), respectively.

         (b)    Members of lattice type structures should be designed in accordance with accepted
                practice for such members; for example, they may comply with the American Institute of
                Steel Construction’s Specifications for the Design, Fabrication and Erection of
                Structural Steel for Buildings.

         D3.4.4 Fatigue Analysis

         D3.4.4.1 The possibility of fatigue damage due to cyclic loading should be considered in the
         design of self elevating and column stabilized units.

         D3.4.4.2 The fatigue analysis will be dependent on the intended mode and area of operations
         to be considered in the unit’s design.

         D3.4.4.3 The fatigue life is to be based on a period of time equal to the specified design life of
         the structure. The period is normally not to be taken as less than 20 years.

         D3.4.5 The effect of notches, stress raisers and local stress concentrations is to be taken
         into account in the design of load carrying elements.

         D3.4.6 Critical joints depending upon transmission of tensile stresses through the thickness
         of the plating of one of the members (which may result in lamellar tearing) are to be avoided
         wherever possible. Where unavoidable, plate material with suitable through-thickness
         properties and inspection procedures may be required.



                                                  Page 4 of 18         IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                     D3


         D3.5        Allowable stresses
D3
(cont)   D3.5.1 For cases involving individual stress components and, where applicable, direct
         additions of such stresses, the stress is not to exceed the allowable individual stress σ i* or
         τ i* .

         where

         σ i* = ησ y for axial bending stress

         τ i* = ησ y for shear stress

         σ y = specified minimum tensile yield stress of the material

         η = usage factor

         for static loadings (see D3.4.1 (i))

         η        = 0,6 for axial stress

                     0,6 for bending stress

                     0,40 for shear stress

         for combined loadings (see D3.4.1 (ii))

         η        = 0,8 for axial stress

                     0,8 for bending stress

                     0,53 for shear stress

         D3.5.2 In addition, the stress in structural elements, due to compression, ending, shear or
         any combination of the three, shall not exceed the allowable buckling stress σ b* or τ b*

         where

         σ b* =ησ cr for compression or bending

         τ b* =ητ cr for shear

         η = 0,6 for static loadings

         η = 0,8 for combined loadings

         σ cr or τ cr =    critical compressive buckling stress or shear buckling stress, respectively, σ y
                              is as defined in D3.5.1.




                                                  Page 5 of 18           IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                D3


         D3.5.3 In addition, when structural members are subjected to axial compression or combined
D3       axial compression and bending, the extreme fibre stresses shall comply with the following
(cont)   requirement:

         σ a / σ a* + σ ab / σ ab* ≤ 1, 0

         where

         σ a = computed axial compressive stress

         σ ab = computed compressive stress due to bending

         σ ab* = σ i* or σ b* for bending stress, as defined in D3.5.1 or D3.5.2

         σ a* = ησ cr ,i (1 − 0,13λ / λ0 ) if λ < λ0
         σ a* =ησ cr ,e 0,87 if λ ≥ λ0

         σ a* shall not exceed σ ab*

         λ = kl/r
         λ0 = 2π 2 E / σ y

         σ cr ,i =     inelastic column critical buckling stress

         σ cr ,e =     elastic column critical buckling stress

         η is as defined in D3.5.2

         kl          = effective unsupported length

         r           = governing radius of gyration associated with kl

         E           = modulus of elasticity of the material

         σ y is as defined in D3.5.1.

         D3.5.4 Unstiffened or ring-stiffened cylindrical shells subjected to axial compression or
         compression due to bending, and having proportions which satisfy the following relationship:

         D / t ＞ E / 9σ y
         where

         D           = mean diameter

         t           = wall thickness

         (D and t expressed in the same units)



                                                       Page 6 of 18      IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                     D3


         σ y is as defined in D3.5.1
D3
(cont)   E is as defined in D3.5.3

         ( σ y and E expressed in the same units)

         are to be checked for local buckling in addition to the overall buckling as specified in D3.5.3.

         D3.5.5 Designs based upon novel methods, such as plastic analysis or elastic buckling
         concepts, will be specially considered.

         NOTE 1

         The allowable stresses as stated in D3.5 are intended to reflect uncertainties in
         environmental data, determination of loadings from the data and calculation of stresses which
         may exist at the present time. It is envisioned that the Requirements may eventually allow for
         the adoption of separate load factors or usage factors for the above influences, so that
         allowance can be given for improvements in forecasting, load estimation or structural
         analysis, as the technology or expertise in any one of these areas improves.

         NOTE 2

         The specific minimum yield point may be determined, for the use of D3, by the drop of the
         beam or halt in the gauge in the testing machine or by the use of dividers or by 0,5% total
         extension under load. When no well defined yield phenomenon exists, the yield strength
         associated with a 0,2% offset or a 0,5% total extension under load is to be considered the
         yield strength.

         D3.6     Units resting on the sea bed

         D3.6.1 Units designed to rest on the sea bed are to have sufficient positive downward
         gravity loadings on the support footings or mat to withstand the overturning moment of the
         combined environmental forces from any direction, with a reserve against the loss of positive
         bearing of any footing or segment of the area thereof, for each design loading condition.
         Variable loads are to be considered in a realistic manner, to the satisfaction of the Society.

         D3.7     Stability

         D3.7.1 General

         All units are to have positive stability in calm water equilibrium position, for the full range of
         draughts when in all modes of operation afloat, and for temporary positions when raising or
         lowering. In addition, all units are to meet the stability requirements set forth herein for all
         applicable conditions.

         D3.7.2 Intact stability

         All units are to have sufficient stability (righting ability) to withstand the overturning effect of
         the force produced by a sustained wind from any horizontal direction, in accordance with the
         stability criteria given in D3.8, for all afloat modes of operation. Realistic operating conditions
         are to be evaluated, and the unit should be capable of remaining in the operating mode with a
         sustained wind velocity of not less than 36 m/s (70 knots). The capability is to be provided to
         change the mode of operation of the unit to that corresponding to a severe storm condition,
         with a sustained wind velocity of not less than 51,5 m/s (100 knots), in a reasonable period of


                                                Page 7 of 18            IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                    D3


         time for the particular unit. In all cases, the limiting wind velocities are to be specified and
D3       instructions should be included in the Operating Booklet for changing the mode of operation
(cont)   by redistribution of the variable load and equipment, by changing draughts, or both. For
         restricted operations consideration may be given to a reduced sustained wind velocity of not
         less than 25,8 m/s (50 knots). Particulars of the applicable service restrictions should be
         recorded in the Operating Booklet. For the purpose of calculation it is to be assumed that the
         unit is floating free of mooring restraints. However, the possible detrimental effects of mooring
         restraints are to be considered.

         D3.7.3 Damage stability

         (1)    All units are to have sufficient stability to withstand the flooding from the sea of any
                single compartment or any combination of compartments consistent with the damage
                assumption set out in D4.4.1, D5.6.1 and D6.4.1, for operating and transit modes of
                operation. The unit is to possess sufficient reserve stability in the damaged condition to
                withstand the additional heeling moment of a 25,8 m/s (50 knots) sustained wind
                superimposed from any direction.

         (2)    Additionally, column stabilized units are to have sufficient stability to withstand, in any
                operating or transit condition with the assumption of no wind, the flooding of any single
                watertight compartment located wholly or partially below the waterline in question,
                which is a pump room, a room containing machinery with a salt water cooling system or
                a compartment adjacent to the sea.

         (3)    For all types of units, the ability to compensate for damage incurred, by pumping out or
                by ballasting other compartments, etc., is not to be considered as alleviating the above
                requirements. For the purpose of calculation, it is to be assumed that the unit is floating
                free of mooring restraints. However, possible detrimental effects of mooring restraints
                are to be considered.

         D3.7.4 Light ship weight and centre of gravity

         An inclining test will be required for the first unit of a design when as near to completion as
         possible, to determine accurately the light ship weight and position of centre of gravity. An
         inclining test procedure is to be submitted to the Society for review prior to the test, which is
         to be witnessed by a Surveyor of the Society. For successive units of a design, which are
         basically identical with regard to hull form, with the exception of minor changes in
         arrangement, machinery, equipment, etc., and with concurrence by the Society that such
         changes are minor, detailed weight calculations showing only the differences of weight and
         centres of gravity will be satisfactory, provided the accuracy of the calculations is confirmed
         by a deadweight survey. The results of the inclining test, or deadweight survey and inclining
         experiment adjusted for weight differences, should be reviewed by the Society prior to
         inclusion in the Operating Booklet.

         D3.8      Stability criterion under wind force

         D3.8.1 Intact condition

         Righting moment curves and wind heeling moment curves related to the most critical axis,
         with supporting calculations, are to be prepared for a sufficient number of conditions covering
         the full range of draughts corresponding to afloat modes of operation (cf. Fig. 1). Where
         drilling equipment is of the nature that it can be lowered and stowed, additional wind heeling
         moment and stability curves may be required, and such data should clearly indicate the
         position of such equipment. In all cases, except column stabilized units, the area under the
         righting moment curve to the second intercept or downflooding angle, whichever is less, is not


                                                Page 8 of 18           IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                  D3


         to be less than 40% in excess of the area under the wind heeling moment curve to the same
D3       limiting angle. For column stabilized units, the area under the righting moment curve to the
(cont)   angle of downflooding is not to be less than 30% in excess of the area under the wind heeling
         moment curve to the same limiting angle. In all cases, the righting moment curve is to be
         positive over the entire range of angles from upright to the second intercept.




                             Fig.1 Righting moment and heeling moment curves

         D3.8.2 Wind heeling moment

         The wind heeling moment is to be calculated at several angles of inclination for each mode of
         operation. The calculations should be performed in a manner to reflect the range of stability
         about the most critical axis. The lever for the heeling force should be taken vertically from the
         centre of lateral resistance or, if available, the centre of hydrodynamic pressure, of the
         underwater body to the centre of pressure of the areas subject to wind loading. In calculating
         wind heeling moments for shipshaped hulls, the curve may be assumed to vary as the cosine
         function of the vessel’s heel.

         Wind heeling moments should be based on wind forces calculated by the following formula:

         F     = 0,5pCs Ch AV2

         where

         F     = the wind force (N)

         p     = the air mass density (1.222 kg/m3)

         Cs    = the shape coefficient

         Ch    = the height coefficient
         A     = the projected area of all exposed surfaces in either the upright or the heeled
                 condition (m2)

         v     = the wind velocity (m/s)

         NOTE: All units are to be consistent.




                                                 Page 9 of 18         IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                 D3


         (i)     The values of the coefficient Cs depend on the shape of the wind-exposed area and
D3               should be based on the following:
(cont)
         Shape                                                                      CS
         Spherical                                                                  0.4
         Cylindrical                                                                0.5
         Large flat surface (hull, deckhouse, smooth under-deck areas)              1.0
         Drilling derrick                                                          1.25
         Wires                                                                      1.2
         Exposed beams and girders under deck                                      1.3
         Small parts                                                                1.4
         Isolated shapes (crane, beam, etc.)                                        1.5
         Clustered deckhouses or similar structures                                1.1

         Shapes or combinations of shapes which do not readily fall into the specified categories will
         be subject to special consideration by the Society.

         (ii)    The values of the coefficient Ch depend on the height of the centre of the wind exposed
                 area sea level and are given below:

                                         Height
                        Metres                                  Feet                           Ch
                 Over        Not Exceeding             Over         Not Exceeding
                   0              15,3                  0                 50                   1,0
                  15,3            30,3                  50               100                  1,10
                  30,5            46,0                 100               150                  1,20
                  46,0            61,0                 150               200                  1,30
                  61,0            76,0                 200               250                  1,37
                  76,0            91,5                 250               300                  1,43
                  91,5           106,5                 300               350                  1,48
                 106,5           122,0                 350               400                  1,52
                 122,0           137,0                 400               450                  1,56
                 137,0           152,5                 450               500                  1,60
                 152,5           167,5                 500               550                  1,63
                 167,5           183,0                 550               600                  1,67
                 183,0           198,0                 600               650                  1,70
                 198,0           213,5                 650               700                  1,72
                 213,5           228,5                 700               750                  1,75
                 228,5           244,0                 750               800                  1,77
                 244,0           259,0                 800               850                  1,79
                       above 259                              above 850                       1,80

         (iii)   In calculating the wind forces, the following procedures are recommended:

         (a) In the case of units with columns, the projected areas of all columns should be included;
         i.e. no shielding allowance should be taken.

         (b) Areas exposed due to heel, such as underdecks, etc., should be included using the
         appropriate shape coefficients.

         (c) The block projected area of a clustering of deckhouses may be used in lieu of calculating
         each individual area. The shape coefficient may be assumed to be 1,1.




                                                Page 10 of 18         IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                   D3


         (d) Isolated houses, structural shapes, cranes, etc., should be calculated individually, using
D3       the appropriate shape coefficient.
(cont)
         (e) Open truss work commonly used for derrick towers, booms and certain types of masts
         may be approximated by taking 30% of the projected block area of each side, e.g. 60% of the
         projected block area of one side for double-sided truss work. An appropriate shape coefficient
         is to be taken from the table.

         D3.8.3 Damage conditions

         (1)   Self elevating and surface type units are to have sufficient stability per D3.7.3(1), such
               that the final waterline is located below the lower edge of any opening that does not
               meet the watertight integrity requirements of D7.4.2.

         For self-elevating units particularly, the flooding of any single compartment with the
         assumption of no wind while meeting the following criterion:

                                                     
         RoS = θ m − θ s ≥ Max(7  + 1.5θ s ) ， 10  
                                                     
         where:

         RoS = range of stability, in degrees

               θm = maximum angle of positive stability, in degrees
               θs = static angle of inclination after damage, in degrees

         The range of stability is determined without reference to the angle of downflooding. Refer to
         Fig.2.




                                Fig.2 Residual stability for self-elevating units


         (2)   Column stabilized units are to have sufficient stability per D3.7.3(1) such that:

         (a) the final waterline is located below the lower edge of any opening that does not meet the
         watertight integrity requirements of D7.4.2 (Attention is drawn to 3.4.3 of the 2009 IMO
         MODU Code [Res A.1023(26)] which limits the inclination of the unit relative to this final
         waterline, to be not greater than 17 degrees. Refer to Fig.3. Compliance with this limitation
         may be required by some Administrations).



                                                Page 11 of 18         IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                   D3


         (b) within the provided extent of weathertight integrity the damage righting moment curve is to
D3       have a range of at least 7 degrees beyond its first intercept with the 25,8 m/sec (50 knots)
(cont)   wind heeling moment curve to its second intercept or downflooding angle, whichever is less.
         Further, the damage righting moment curve is to reach a value of at least twice the wind
         heeling moment curve, both measured at the same angle. Refer to Fig.3.

         (c) openings within 4 m above the final waterline are to be made weathertight.




               Fig.3 Residual damage stability requirements for column stabilized units


         (3)   Column stabilized units are to have sufficient stability per D3.7.3(2) such that:

         (a) the equilibrium waterline is located below the lower edge of any opening that does not
         meet the watertight integrity requirements of D7.4.2 (Attention is drawn to 3.4.4 of the 2009
         IMO MODU Code [Res A.1023(26)] which limits the inclination of the unit, relative to this
         equilibrium waterline, to be not greater than 25 degrees. Compliance with this limitation may
         be required by some Administrations).

         (b) sufficient margin of stability is provided. (Attention is drawn to 3.4.4 of the 2009 IMO
         MODU Code [Res A.1023(26)] which requires a range of positive stability of at least 7
         degrees beyond the first intercept of the righting moment curve and the horizontal coordinate
         axis of the static stability curve to the second intercept of them or the downflooding angle,
         whichever is less. Compliance with this range may be required by some Administrations).

         D3.8.4 Wind tunnel tests

         Wind heeling moments derived from authoritative wind tunnel tests on a representative model
         of the unit may be considered as alternatives to the method given herein. Such heeling
         moment determination is to include lift effects at various applicable heel angles, as well as
         drag effects.

         D3.8.5 Other Stability Criteria

         (1)   Alternative stability criteria may be considered acceptable provided the criteria afford
               adequate righting moment to resist the heeling effects of operating and environmental
               forces and sufficient margins to preclude downflooding and capsizing in intact and
               damaged conditions.



                                               Page 12 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                    D3


         (2)    The following will be considered in determining the adequacy of alternative criteria
D3              submitted for review:
(cont)
         (a) Environmental conditions representing realistic winds (including gusts) and waves
         appropriate for various modes of operations;

         (b) Dynamic response of a unit. Where appropriate, the analysis should include the results of
         wind tunnel tests, wave tank model tests and nonlinear simulation. Any wind and wave
         spectra used should cover sufficient frequency ranges to ensure that critical motion
         responses are obtained;

         (c) Potential for downflooding, taking into account dynamic responses and wave profile;

         (d) Susceptibility to capsizing considering the unit’s restoration energy, static inclination due
         to mean wind speed and maximum dynamic responses;

         (e) A safety margin consistent with the methodology to account for uncertainties;

         (f) Damage assumptions at least equivalent to the requirements contained in Sections D4.4.1,
         D5.6.1 and D6.4.1;

         (g) For column stabilized units one compartment flooding assumptions at least equivalent to
         the requirement contained in D3.7.3(2).

         D3.9     Load line

         D3.9.1 Any unit to which a load line is required to be assigned under the applicable terms of
         the International Convention on Load Lines should be subject to compliance with the
         Convention. All other units are to have load line marks which designate the maximum
         permissible draught when the unit is in the afloat condition. Such markings are to be placed at
         suitable visible locations on the structure, to the satisfaction of the Society. These marks,
         where practicable, are to be visible to the person in charge of mooring, lowering or otherwise
         operating the unit. The permissible draughts are to be established on the basis of meeting the
         applicable stability and structural requirements as set forth herein for afloat modes of
         operation, with such seasonal allowances as may be determined. In no case is the draught to
         exceed that permitted by the International Convention on Load Lines, where applicable. A
         load line, where assigned, is not applicable to bottom-supported units when resting on the
         sea bed, or when lowering to or raising from such position.

         D3.9.2 Column Stabilized Units

         1.     The hull form of column stabilized units makes the calculations of geometric freeboard
                in accordance with the provisions of the Load Line Convention impracticable. Therefore,
                the minimum freeboard of each column stabilized unit should be determined by meeting
                the applicable requirements for:

                a) the strength of unit’s structure
                b) the minimum clearance between passing wave crests and deck structure and
                c) intact and damage stability requirements.

         2.     The enclosed deck structure of each column stabilized unit should be specially
                considered by the Society for each unit.




                                                Page 13 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                  D3


         3.    Societies should also give special consideration to the position of openings which
D3             cannot be closed in emergencies, such as air intakes for emergency generators having
(cont)         regard to the intact righting arm curves and the final waterline after assumed damage.

         D3.10    Helicopter deck

         D3.10.1 General

         Plans showing the arrangement, scantlings and details of the helicopter deck are to be
         submitted. The arrangement plan is to show the overall size of the helicopter deck and the
         designated landing area. If the arrangement provides for the securing of a helicopter or
         helicopters to the deck, the predetermined position(s) selected to accommodate the secured
         helicopter, in addition to the locations of deck fittings for securing the helicopter, are to be
         shown. The helicopter for which the deck is designed is to be specified, and calculations for
         the relevant loading conditions are to be submitted. The identification of the helicopter which
         is used for design purposes should be included in the Operating Booklet.

         D3.10.2 Structural design

         Scantlings of helicopter decks and supporting structure are to be determined on the basis of
         the following design loading conditions in association with the allowable stresses shown in
         Table 1.

         (i) Overall distributed loading: A minimum distributed loading of 2 kN/m2 (42 lb/ft2) is to be
         taken over the entire helicopter deck.
         (ii) Helicopter landing impact loading: A load of not less than 75% of the helicopter maximum
         take-off weight is to be taken on each of two square areas, 0,3 m x 0,3 m (1 ft x 1 ft). The
         deck is to be designed for helicopter landings at any location within the designated area. For
         the design of girders, stanchions truss supports, etc., the structural weight of the helicopter
         deck should be considered in addition to the helicopter impact loading. Where the upper deck
         of a superstructure or deckhouse is used as a helicopter deck and the spaces below are
         normally manned (quarters, bridge, control room, etc.) the impact loading is to be multiplied
         by a factor of 1,15.

         (iii) Stowed helicopter loading: If provisions are made to accommodate helicopters secured to
         the deck in a predetermined position, the structure is to be designed for a local loading equal
         to the manufacturer’s recommended wheel loadings at maximum take-off weight, multiplied
         by a dynamic amplification factor based on the predicted motions of the unit for this condition,
         as may be applicable for the unit under consideration. In addition, a uniformly distributed
         loading of 0,5 kN/m2 (10,5 lb/ft2), representing wet snow or ice, is to be considered, if
         applicable. For the design of girders, stanchions, truss supports, etc., the structural weight of
         the helicopter deck should also be considered.




                                               Page 14 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                    D3


         Table 1 Allowable stresses
D3
(cont)                                                                 Allowable stress
                        Condition                        Plating          Beams     Girders, stanchions,
                                                                                    truss supports, etc.
         1. Overall distributed loading                  0,6 σ Y          0,6 σ Y          0,6 σ Y *
                                                      (See Note 1)

         2. Helicopter landing impact loading                **              σY               0,9 σ Y *
         3. Stowed helicopter loading                      σY              0,9 σ Y            0,8 σ Y *
                                  σ Y = specified minimum tensile yield strength of the material
               *     For members subjected to axial compression, the yield stress or critical buckling
                     stress, whichever is less, is to be considered.
              **     To the satisfaction of the Society, in association with the method of analysis
                     presented. The Society may consider an allowable stress that exceeds σ Y , provided
                     the rationale of the analysis is sufficiently conservative.
         NOTES
             1.      The thickness of plating for the overall distributed loading condition is not to be less
                     that the minimum required by the Rules.
               2.    Helicopters fitted with landing gear other than wheels shall be specially considered by
                     the Society.
               3.    Wind loadings and possible wave impact loadings on helicopter decks are to be
                     considered in a realistic manner, to the satisfaction on the Society.

         D3.11      Position keeping systems and components

         D3.11.1 General

         D3.11.1.1 Units provided with position keeping systems equipment in accordance with D3.11
         will be eligible to have a special optional notation included in the classification designation in
         accordance with the policy of the Society.

         D3.11.2 Anchoring Systems

         D3.11.2.1 General

         Plans showing the arrangement and complete details of the anchoring system, including
         anchors, shackles, anchor lines consisting of chain, wire or rope, together with details of
         fairleads, windlasses, winches, and any other components of the anchoring system and their
         foundations are to be submitted to the Society.

         D3.11.2 .2 Design

         D3.11.2.2.1 An analysis of the anchoring arrangements expected to be utilized in the unit’s
         operation is to be submitted to the Society. Among the items to be addressed are:

         1.    Design environmental conditions of waves, winds, currents, tides and ranges of water
               depth.

         2.    Air and sea temperature.

         3.    Ice conditions (if applicable).



                                                 Page 15 of 18         IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                  D3


         4.    Description of analysis methodology.
D3
(cont)   D3.11.2.2.2 The anchoring system should be designed so that a sudden failure of any single
         anchor line will not cause progressive failure of remaining lines in the anchoring arrangement.

         D3.11.2.2.3 Anchoring system components should be designed utilizing adequate factors of
         safety (FOS) and a design methodology suitable to identify the most severe loading condition
         for each component. In particular, sufficient numbers of heading angles together with the
         most severe combination of wind, current and wave are to be considered, usually from the
         same direction, to determine the maximum tension in each mooring line. When a particular
         site is being considered, any applicable cross sea conditions are also to be considered in the
         event that they might induce higher mooring loads.

         D3.11.2.2.3.1 When the Quasi Static Method is applied, the tension in each anchor line is to
         be calculated at the maximum excursion for each design condition defined in D3.11.2.2.3.2,
         combining the following steady state and dynamic responses of the Unit:

         (a) steady mean offset due to the defined wind, current, and steady wave forces;

         (b) most probable maximum wave induced motions of the moored unit due to wave excitation.

         For relatively deep water, the effect from damping and inertia forces in the anchor lines is to
         be considered in the analysis. The effects of slowly varying motions are to be included for
         MODUs when the magnitudes of such motions are considered to be significant.

         D3.11.2.2.3.2 When the Quasi Static Method outlined in D3.11.2.2.3.1 is applied, the
         following minimum factors of safety at the maximum excursion of the unit for a range of
         headings should be considered:

         DESIGN CONDITION                                 FOS

         Operating                                        2,7
         Severe storm                                     1,8
         Operating – one line failed                      1,8
         Severe storm – one line failed                   1,25
         where:

         FOS = PB/Tmax

         Tmax = characteristic tension in the anchor line, equal to the maximum value obtained
         according to D3.11.2.2.3.1

         PB    = minimum rated breaking strength of the anchor line

         Operating:         the most severe design environmental condition for normal operations as
                            defined by the owner or designer

         Severe storm:      the most severe design environmental condition for severe storm as defined
                            by the owner or designer
         Operating –
         one line failed:   following the failure of any one mooring line in the operating condition

         Severe storm –
         one line failed: following the failure of any one mooring line in the severe storm condition



                                                Page 16 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                  D3


         When a dynamic analysis is employed, other safety factors may be considered to the
D3       satisfaction of the Society.
(cont)
         The defined Operating and Severe Storm are to be the same as those identified for the
         design of the unit, unless the Society is satisfied that lesser conditions may be applicable to
         specific sites.

         D3.11.2.2.3.3 In general, the maximum wave induced motions of the moored unit about the
         steady mean offset should be obtained by means of model tests. The Society may accept
         analytical calculations provided that the proposed method is based on a sound methodology
         which has been validated by model tests.

         In the consideration of column stabilized MODUs, the value of CS and CH, as indicated in
         D3.8.2, may be introduced in the analysis for position keeping mooring systems. The intent of
         D3.8.3 – Wind tunnel tests, and of D3.8.4 – Other stability requirements, may also be
         considered by the Society.

         D3.11.2.2.3.4 The Society may accept different analysis methodologies provided that it is
         satisfied that a level of safety equivalent to the one obtained by D3.11.2.2.3.1 and
         D3.11.2.2.3.2 is ensured.

         D3.11.2.2.3.5 The Society may give special consideration to an arrangement where the
         anchoring systems are used in conjunction with thrusters to maintain the unit on station.

         D3.11.3 Equipment

         D3.11.3.1 Windlasses

         D3.11.3.1.1 The design of the windlass is to provide for adequate dynamic braking capacity
         to control normal combinations of loads from the anchor, anchor line and anchor handling
         vessel during the deployment of the anchors at the maximum design payout speed of the
         windlass. The attachment of the windlass to the hull structure is to be designed to withstand
         the breaking strength of the anchor line.

         D3.11.3.1.2 Each windlass is to be provided with two independent power operated brakes
         and each brake is to be capable of holding against a static load in the anchor lines of at least
         50 percent of its breaking strength. Where the Society so allows, one of the brakes may be
         replaced by a manually operated brake.

         D3.11.3.1.3 On loss of power to the windlasses, the power operated braking system should
         be automatically applied and be capable of holding against 50 percent of the total static
         braking capacity of the windlass.

         D3.11.3.2 Fairleads and Sheaves

         D3.11.3.2.1 Fairleads and sheaves should be designed to prevent excessive bending and
         wear of the anchor lines. The attachments to the hull or structure are to be such as to
         withstand the stresses imposed when an anchor line is loaded to its breaking strength.

         D3.11.4 Anchor line

         D3.11.4.1 The Society is to be ensured that the anchor lines are of a type that will satisfy the
         design conditions of the anchoring system.




                                               Page 17 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                 D3


         D3.11.4.2 Means are to be provided to enable the anchor lines to be released from the unit
D3       after loss of main power.
(cont)
         D3.11.4.3 Means are to be provided for measuring anchor line tensions.

         D3.11.4.4 Anchor lines are to be of adequate length to prevent uplift of the anchors under the
         maximum design condition for the anticipated area(s) of operation.

         D3.11.5 Anchors

         D3.11.5.1 Type and design of anchors are to be to the satisfaction of the Society.

         D3.11.5.2 All anchors are to be stowed to prevent movement during transit.

         D3.11.6 Quality Control

         D3.11.6.1 Details of the quality control of the manufacturing process of the individual
         anchoring system components are to be submitted. Components should be designed,
         manufactured and tested in accordance with recognized standards insofar as possible and
         practical. Equipment so tested should, insofar as practical, be legibly and permanently
         marked with the Society’s stamp and delivered with documentation which records the results
         of the tests.

         D3.11.7 Control Stations

         D3.11.7.1 A manned control station is to be provided with means to indicate anchor line
         tensions at the individual windlass control positions and to indicate wind speed and direction.

         D3.11.7.2 Reliable means are to be provided to communicate between locations critical to the
         anchoring operation.

         D3.11.7.3 Means are to be provided at the individual windlass control positions to monitor
         anchor line tension, windlass power load and to indicate amount of anchor line payed out.

         D3.11.8 Dynamic Positioning Systems

         D3.11.8.1 Thrusters used as a sole means of position keeping should provide a level of
         safety equivalent to that provided for anchoring arrangements to the satisfaction of the
         Society.




                                              Page 18 of 18          IACS Req. 1979/Rev.6 2018
                                                                                                                         D4



D4
 D4        Self-elevating drilling units
  (cont)
(1979)
(Rev.1     D4.1        General
1990)
(Rev.2     D4.1.1 This section applies to the unit type as defined in D2.2.1.
1996)
(Rev.3     D4.2        Hull scantlings
Jan
2012)      D4.2.1 Scantlings of the hull structure, except as outlined below, are to meet the Rules.

           D4.3        Design considerations

           D4.3.1 Legs

           (a)      Leg types: Legs may be either shell type or truss type. Shell type legs may be designed
                    as either stiffened or unstiffened shells. In addition, individual footings may be fitted or
                    legs may be permanently attached to a bottom mat.

           (b)      Legs without mats: Where footings or mats are not fitted, proper consideration should
                    be given to the leg penetration of the sea bed and the end fixity of the leg.

           (c)      Legs in the field transit condition: Legs are to be designed for a bending moment
                    caused by a 6° single amplitude of roll or pitch at the natural period of the unit, plus
                    120% of the gravity moment caused by the legs’ angle of inclination. The legs are to be
                    investigated for any proposed leg arrangement with respect to vertical position during
                    field transit moves, and the approved positions should be specified in the Operating
                    Booklet. Such investigation should include strength and stability aspects.

           (d)      Legs in the ocean transit condition: Legs should be designed for acceleration and
                    gravity moments resulting from the motions in the most severe anticipated
                    environmental transit conditions, together with corresponding wind moments.
                    Calculation or model test methods, acceptable to the Society, may be used.
                    Alternatively, legs may be designed for a bending moment caused by minimum design
                    criteria of a 15° single amplitude of roll or pitch at a 10 second period, plus 120% of the
                    gravity moment caused by the legs’ angle of inclination. For ocean transit conditions, it
                    may be necessary to reinforce or support the legs, or to remove sections of them. The
                    approved condition should be included in the Operating Booklet.

           (e)      Unit in the elevated position: When computing leg stresses, the maximum overturning
                    load on the unit, using the most adverse combination of applicable variable loadings
                    together with the loadings as outlined in D3, is to be considered. Forces and moments
                    due to lateral frame deflections of the legs are to be taken into account. (See D3.3.3.(c)
                    with respect to vibration).

           (f)      Leg scantlings: Leg scantlings are to be determined in accordance with a method of
                    rational analysis, to the satisfaction of the Society.


           Notes:

           1.       This UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on and after 1 January 2013.

           2.       The "contracted for construction" date means the date on which the contract to build the vessel is signed
                    between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details regarding the date of "contract for
                    construction", refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR) No. 29.



                                                           Page 1 of 4                    IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                   D4


         D4.3.2 Structure in way of jacking or other elevating arrangements
D4
(cont)   Load carrying members which transmit loads from the legs to the hull are to be designed for
         the maximum design loads and are to be so arranged that loads transmitted from the legs are
         properly diffused into the hull structure.

         D4.3.3 Hull structure

         The hull is to considered as a complete structure having sufficient strength to resist all
         induced stresses while in the elevated position and supported by all legs. All fixed and
         variable loads are to be distributed, by an accepted method of rational analysis, from the
         various points of application to the supporting legs. The scantlings of the hull are then to be
         determined consistent with this load distribution, but are not to be less than those required be
         D4.2. Scantlings of units having other than rectangular hull configurations will be subject to
         special consideration.

         D4.3.4 Wave clearance

         The unit is to be designed for a crest clearance of either 1,2 m (4 ft), or 10% of the combined
         storm tide, astronomical tide and height of the maximum wave crest above the mean low
         water level, whichever is less, between the underside of the unit in the elevated position and
         the crest of the design wave. This crest elevation is to be measured above the level of the
         combined astronomical and storm tides.

         D4.3.5 Bottom mat

         When the bottoms of the legs are attached to a mat, particular attention is to be given to the
         attachment and the framing and bracing of the mat, in order that the loads resulting from the
         legs are properly distributed. The envelope plating of tanks which are not vented freely to the
         sea is not to be less in thickness than would be required by the Rules for tanks, using a head
         to the design water level, taking into account the astronomical and storm tides. The effects of
         scouring on the bottom bearing surface should be considered. The effects of skirt plates,
         where provided, will be specially considered. Mats are to be designed to withstand the shock
         of touching bottom while the unit is afloat and subject to wave motions.

         D4.3.6 Preload capability

         For units without bottom mats, all legs are to have the capability of being preloaded to the
         maximum applicable combined gravity plus overturning load. The approved preload
         procedure should be included in the Operating Booklet.

         D4.3.7 Sea bed conditions

         Classification will be based upon the designer’s assumptions regarding the sea bed
         conditions. These assumptions should be recorded in the Operating Booklet. It is the
         responsibility of the operator to ensure that actual conditions do not impose more severe
         loadings on the unit.

         D4.3.8 Deckhouses

         Deckhouses are to have sufficient strength for their size, function and location, and are to be
         constructed to approved plans. Their general scantlings are to be as indicated in the Rules.
         Where they are close to the side shell of the unit, their scantlings may be required to conform
         to the Society’s requirements for bulkheads of unprotected house fronts.



                                               Page 2 of 4               IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                        D4


         D4.4      Damage stability
D4
(cont)   D4.4.1 In assessing the damage stability of self-elevating drilling units as required by
         D3.7.3, the following extent of damage is to be assumed to occur between effective watertight
         bulkheads:

         (i)    Horizontal penetration: 1,5 m (5 ft).

         (ii)   Vertical extent: bottom shell upwards without limit.
                The distance between effective watertight bulkheads or their nearest stepped portions
                which are positioned within the assumed extent of horizontal penetration should be not
                less than 3 m; where there is a lesser distance, one or more of the adjacent bulkheads
                should be disregarded.
                Where a bottom mat is fitted, assumed damage penetration simultaneous to both the
                mat and the upper hull need only be considered when the lightest draught allows any
                part of the mat to fall within 1,5 m (5 ft) vertically of the waterline, and the difference in
                horizontal dimension of the upper hull and mat is less than 1,5 m (5 ft) in any area
                under consideration. If damage of a lesser extent results in a more severe final
                equilibrium condition, such lesser extent shall be assumed.
                All piping, ventilating systems, trunks, etc., within this extent are to be assumed
                damaged. Positive means of closure are to be provided to preclude progressive
                flooding of other intact spaces. In addition, the compartments adjacent to the bottom
                shell are also to be considered flooded individually.

         The recessed ends and sides of the drilling slot need not be subject to horizontal penetration
         if warning signs be posted on each side of the vessel stating that no boats be allowed inside
         the drilling slot. Instructions to this effect should be included in the Operating Booklet.




                                                  Page 3 of 4                IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                  D4


         Annex to UR D4 as Recommendations on Operation of Legs:
D4
(cont)   (1)   Legs while lowering to bottom: Legs are to be designed to withstand the dynamic loads
               which may be encountered by their unsupported length just prior to touching bottom,
               and also to withstand the shock of touching bottom while the unit is afloat and subject to
               wave motions.

         (2)   Instructions for lowering legs: The maximum design motions, bottom conditions and sea
               state while lowering legs should be clearly indicated in the Operating Booklet, and the
               legs are not to be permitted to touch bottom when the site conditions exceed the
               allowable.




                                                                                              End of
                                                                                              Document


                                               Page 4 of 4               IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                      D5




D5        Column stabilized drilling units
1979)
(Rev. 1
1987)     D5.1       General
(Rev. 2
1990)     D5.1.1     This section applies to the unit type as defined in D2.2.2
(Rev. 3
1996)     D5.1.2 For units of this type, the highest stresses may be associated with less severe envi-
          ronmental conditions than the maxima specified by the owner (designer). Where consid-
          ered necessary by the Society, account should be taken of the consequent increased possi-
          bility of encounter of significant stress levels, by either or both of the following:

          (i)      Suitable reduction of the allowable stress levels for combined loadings given in D3.
          (ii)     Detailed investigation of the fatigue properties.

          Particular attention should also be given to the details of structural design in critical areas
          such as bracing members, joint connections, etc.

          D5.1.3 Local structures in way of fairleads, winches, etc., forming part of the position
          mooring system, should be designed to the breaking strength of the mooring line.


          D5.2       Upper structure

          D5.2.1 The scantlings of the upper structure are not to be less than those required by the
          Rules in association with the loadings indicated on the deck loading plan. (These loadings
          are not to be less than the minima specified in D3.3.6) In addition, when the upper struc-
          ture is considered to be an effective member of the overall structural frame of the unit, the
          scantlings are to be sufficient to withstand actual local loadings plus any additional load-
          ings superimposed due to frame action, within the stress limitations of D3.

          D5.2.2 When the upper structure is designed to be waterborne in any mode of operation
          or damaged condition, or to meet stability requirements, it will be subject to special con-
          sideration.

          D5.2.3 Deckhouses fitted to the upper structure are to be designed in accordance with the
          Rules, with due consideration given to their location and to the environmental conditions
          in which the unit will operate.


          D5.3       Columns, lower hulls and footings

          D5.3.1 Main stability columns, lower hulls or footings may be designed as either framed
          or unframed shells. In either case, framing, ring stiffeners, bulkheads or other suitable
          diaphragms which are used are to be sufficient to maintain shape and stiffness under all the
          anticipated loadings.

          Portlights or windows including those of the non-opening type, or other similar openings,
          are not to be fitted in columns.
                                                                                                      ▲




                                                       D5-1
                                                                                          IACS Req. 1990
D5




D5               D5.3.2
                          (a)      Where columns, lower hulls or footings are designed with stiffened plating,
cont’d                             the minimum scantlings of plating, framing, girders, etc., may be determined
                                   in accordance with the requirements for tanks as given in D7. Where an inter-
                                   nal space is a void compartment, the design head used in association with the
                                   above is not to be less that that corresponding to the maximum allowable
                                   waterline of the unit in service. In general, the scantlings are not to less than
                                   required for watertight bulkheads in association with a head equivalent to the
                                   maximum damaged waterline, and for all areas subject to wave immersion, a
                                   minimum head of 6,0 m (20 ft) should be used.
                          (b)      Where columns, lower hulls or footings are designed as shells, either unstiff-
                                   ened or ring stiffened, the minimum scantlings of shell plating and ring stiff-
                                   eners are to be determined on the basis of established shell analysis using the
                                   appropriate usage factors and the design heads as given in (a).
                          (c)      Scantlings of columns, lower hulls or footings as determined in (a) and (b )
                                   are minimum requirements for hydrostatic pressure loads. Where wave and
                                   current forces are superimposed, the local structure of the shell is to be
                                   increased in scantlings as necessary, to meet the strength requirements of
                                   D3.4.1 (ii).
                          (d)      When the column, lower hull or footing is an effective member of the over-
                                   all structural frame of the unit, the scantlings are to be sufficient to meet the
                                   requirements of D5.3 plus any additional stresses superimposed due to frame
                                   action, within the stress limitations of D3.
                          (e)      Particular consideration is to be given to structural details, reinforcement,
                                   etc., in areas subject to high local loadings, or to such loadings that may
                                   cause shell distortion; for example:
                                   (i)     bottom bearing loads, where applicable;
                                   (ii)    partially filled tanks;
                                   (iii) local strength against external damage;
                                   (iv) continuity through joints;
                                   (v)     wave impacts.

                          (f)      For units designed to rest on the sea bed, the effect of scouring action (loss
                                   of bottom support) is to be considered. The effects of skirt plates, where pro-
                                   vided, will be specially considered.

                 D5.3.3         Bracing members

                          (a)      Stresses in bracing members due to all anticipated loadings are to be deter-
                                   mined in accordance with the following requirements in conjunction with the
                                   relevant requirements of D3.
                          (b)      Bracing members are to be designed to transmit loadings and to make the
                                   structure effective against environmental forces and, when the unit is sup-
                                   ported by the seabed, against the possibility of uneven bearing loads.
                                   Although designed primarily as brace members of the overall structure under
                                   the designated loadings, the bracing must also be investigated, if applicable,
                                   for superimposed local bending stresses due to buoyancy, wave and current
                                   forces.
                          (c)      Where relevant, consideration is to be given to local stresses due to wave
                                   impact.
                          (d)      When bracing members are of tubular section, ring frames may be required
                                   to maintain stiffness and roundness of shape.

                          (e)      When bracings are watertight, they are to be suitably designed to prevent col-
                                   lapse from external hydrostatic pressure.
                                                                                                                 ▲




                                                         D5-2
IACS Req. 1990
                                                                                                   D5




D5       D5.4       Wave clearance
cont’d   D5.4.1 Afloat condition
         Unless deck structures are designed for wave impact, to the satisfaction of the Society, rea-
         sonable clearance between the deck structures and the wave crests is to be ensured for all
         afloat modes of operation, taking into account the predicted motion of the unit relative to
         the surface of the sea. Calculations, model test results, or prototype experiences are to be
         submitted for consideration.

         D5.4.2     On-bottom condition

         For on-bottom modes of operation, clearances are to be in accordance with those specified
         in D4.3.4 for self-elevating units.


         D5.5       Structural Redundancy

         D5.5.1 When assessing structural redundancy for column stabilized units, the following
         assumed damage conditions shall apply:

         1.       The unit’s structure shall be able to withstand the loss of any slender bracing mem-
                  ber without causing overall collapse of the unit’s structure.

         2.       Structural redundancy will be based on the applicable requirements of D3.3, D3.4,
                  D3.5, and D3.6, except:
                  a.     Maximum calculated stresses in the structure remaining after the loss of a
                         slender bracing member are to be in accordance with D3.5 in association
                         with usage factors not exceeding 1.0. This criteria may be exceeded for local
                         areas, provided redistribution of forces due to yielding or buckling is taken
                         into consideration.
                  b.     When considering environmental factors, a one year return period may be
                         assumed for intended areas of operations. (see D3.3.1)

         D5.5.2 The structural arrangement of the upper hull is to be considered with regard to
         the structural integrity of the unit after the failure of any primary girder.


         D5.6        Damage Stability

         D5.6.1 In assessing the damage stability of column stabilized drilling units as required by
         D3.7.3, the following assumed damage conditions apply.

         (1)      Only those columns, underwater hulls and braces on the periphery of the unit should
                  be assumed to be damaged and the damage should be assumed in the exposed por-
                  tions of the columns, underwater hulls and braces.
         (2)      Columns and braces should be assumed to be flooded by damage having a vertical
                  extent of 3.0 m occurring at any level between 5.0 m above and 3.0 m below the
                  drafts specified in the Operating manual. Where a watertight flat is located within
                  this region, the damage should be assumed to have occurred in both compartments
                  above and below the watertight flat in question. Lesser distances above or below the
                  draughts may be applied taking into account the actual operating conditions.
                  However, the extent of required damage region should be at least 1.5 m above and
                  below the draft in question.
         (3)      No vertical bulkhead should be assumed to be damaged, except where bulkheads
                  are spaced closer than a distance of one eighth of the column perimeter at the
                  draught under consideration, measured at the periphery, in which case one or more
                  of the bulkheads should be disregarded.
         (4)      Horizontal penetration of damage should be assumed to be 1.5 m.
         (5)      Underwater hulls or footings should be assumed to be damaged when operating in
                  a transit condition in the same manner as indicated in D5.6.1 (1), (2), (4) and hav-
                  ing regard to their shape, either D5.6.1 (3) or between effective watertight bulk-
                                                                                                   ▲




                                                     D5-3
                                                                                       IACS Req. 1990
D5




D5               (6)
                       heads.
                       If damage of a lesser extent results in a more severe damage equilibrium condition,
cont’d                 such a lesser extent shall be assumed.
                 (7)   All piping, ventilation systems, trunks, etc., within the extent of damage should be
                       assumed to be damaged. Positive means of closure should be provided to preclude
                       the progressive flooding of other spaces which are intended to be intact.




                                                                                                     ▲
                                                                                                     ▲




                                                   D5-4
IACS Req. 1990
                                                                                                    D6



D6
D6       Surface type drilling units
(1979)
(cont)
(Rev.1   D6.1      General
Jan
2012)    D6.1.1 This section applies to the unit type as defined in D2.2.3.

         D6.2      Ship type drilling units

         D6.2.1 Scantlings of the hull structure are to meet the Rules. Special consideration is,
         however, to be given to items which may require some deviation or additions to the Rules, in
         particular the items indicated in D6.2.2 - D6.2.5.

         D6.2.2 The required strength of the unit is to be maintained in way of the drilling well, and
         particular attention is to be paid to the transition of fore and aft members so as to maintain
         continuity of the longitudinal material. In addition, the plating of the well is to be suitably
         stiffened to prevent damage due to foreign objects which may become trapped in the well
         while the unit is under way.

         D6.2.3 The deck area in way of large hatches is to be suitably compensated where
         necessary to maintain the strength of the unit.

         D6.2.4 The structure in way of heavy concentrated loads resulting from the drilling derrick,
         pipe rack, set back, drilling mud storage, etc., is to be suitably reinforced.

         D6.2.5 Local structure in way of fairleads, winches, etc., forming part of the position mooring
         system, should be designed to the breaking strength of the mooring line.

         D6.3      Barge type drilling units

         D6.3.1 Scantlings of the hull structure are to meet the Rules. Special consideration, where
         applicable, is to be given to items listed in D6.2.

         D6.4      Damage stability

         D6.4.1 Extent of damage

         In assessing the damage stability of surface type drilling units as required by D3.7.3, the
         following extent of damage is to be assumed to occur between effective watertight bulkheads:

         (i)    Horizontal penetration: 1.5 m (5 ft).
         (ii)   Vertical extent: bottom shell upwards without limit.

         Notes:

         1.     This UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on and after
                1 January 2013.

         2.     The "contracted for construction" date means the date on which the contract to build the
                vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                regarding the date of "contract for construction", refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                (PR) No. 29.




                                                 Page 1 of 2              IACS Req. 1979/Rev.1 2012
                                                                                                   D6


         The distance between effective watertight bulkheads or their nearest stepped portions which
D6       are positioned within the assumed extent of horizontal penetration should be not less than
(cont)   3 m; where there is a lesser distance, one or more of the adjacent bulkheads should be
         disregarded.

         If damage of a lesser extent results in a more severe final equilibrium condition, such lesser
         extent shall be assumed.

         All piping, ventilating systems, trunks, etc., within this extent are to be assumed damaged.
         Positive means of closure are to be provided to preclude progressive flooding of other intact
         spaces. In addition, the compartments bounded by the bottom shell are to be considered
         flooded individually.




                                                                                    End of Document


                                               Page 2 of 2               IACS Req. 1979/Rev.1 2012
                                                                                                                       D7



D7
D7       Watertight integrity
(1979)
(cont)
(Rev.1   D7.1      Watertight boundaries
1990)
(Rev.2   D7.1.1 All units are to be provided with watertight bulkheads as may be required by the
1996)    Rules. In all cases, the plans submitted are to clearly indicate the location and extent of the
(Rev.3   bulkheads. In the case of column stabilized drilling units, the scantlings of the watertight flats
Jan      and bulkheads are to be made effective to that point necessary to meet the requirements of
2012)    damage stability and are to be indicated on the appropriate plans.

         D7.1.2 All surface type units are to be fitted with a collision bulkhead as may be required by
         the Rules. Sluice valves, cocks, manholes, watertight doors, etc., are not to be fitted in the
         collision bulkhead. Elsewhere, watertight bulkheads are to be fitted as necessary to provide
         transverse strength and subdivision.

         D7.2      Tank boundaries

         D7.2.1 Tanks for fresh water or fuel oil, or any other tanks which are not intended to be kept
         entirely filled in service, are to have divisions or deep swashes as may be required to
         minimize the dynamic stress on the structure. Tight divisions and boundary bulkheads of all
         tanks are to be constructed in accordance with the Rules. The arrangement of all tanks,
         together with their intended service and the height of the overflow pipes, is to be clearly
         indicated on the plans submitted for approval. Consideration is to be given to the specific
         gravity of the liquid in the tank.

         D7.2.2 Tanks are to be tested in accordance with the Rules.

         D7.3      Boundary penetrations

         D7.3.1 Where watertight boundaries are required for damage stability, they are to be made
         watertight throughout, including piping, ventilation, shafting, electrical penetrations, etc. For
         compliance with the requirements of damage stability, D3.7.3, where individual lines, ducts or
         piping systems serve more than one compartment or are within the extent of damage,
         satisfactory arrangements are to be provided to preclude the possibility of progressive
         flooding through the system to other spaces, in the event of damage.

         D7.3.2 Piping systems and ventilation ducts designed to watertight standards of the type
         mentioned in D7.3.1 are to be provided with valves in each compartment served. These
         valves are to be capable of being remotely operated from the weather deck, pump room or
         other normally manned space. Valve position indicators are to be provided at the remote
         control stations.

         D7.3.3 Non-watertight ventilation ducts as mentioned in D7.3.1 are to be provided with
         watertight valves at the subdivision boundaries and the valves are to be capable of being
         operated from a remote location, with position indicators on the weatherdeck, or in a normally
         manned space. For self-elevating units, ventilating systems which are not used during the
         transit operations may be secured by alternative methods, subject to special consideration.

         Notes:

         1. This UR apply to mobile offshore drilling units contracted for construction on and after 1 January 2013.

         2. The "contracted for construction" date means the date on which the contract to build the vessel is signed
            between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details regarding the date of "contract for
            construction", refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR) No. 29.



                                                       Page 1 of 4                 IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                     D7


         D7.4          Closures
D7
(cont)   D7.4.1 General

         External closing appliances are to be as prescribed by applicable load line requirements.
         Special consideration will be given to openings in the upper deck of column stabilized units.

         D7.4.2 General requirements related to watertight integrity.

         (1)    External openings, such as air pipes (regardless of closing appliances), ventilators,
                ventilation intakes and outlets, non-watertight hatches and weathertight doors, which
                are used during operation of the unit while afloat, are not to submerge when the unit is
                inclined to the first intercept of the righting moment and wind heeling moment curves in
                any intact or damaged condition. Openings, such as side scuttles of the non-opening
                type, manholes and small hatches, which are fitted with appliances to ensure watertight
                integrity, may be submerged*. Such openings are not to be regarded as emergency
                exits. Where flooding of chain lockers or other buoyant volumes may occur, the
                openings to these spaces should be considered as downflooding points.

         * Such openings are not allowed to be fitted in the column of stabilized units (See D5.3).

         (2)    External openings fitted with appliances to ensure watertight integrity, which are kept
                permanently closed while afloat, are to comply with the requirements of D7.4.2 (4).

         (3)    Internal openings fitted with appliances to ensure watertight integrity are to comply with
                the following:

                (i)      Doors and hatch covers which are used during the operation of the unit while
                         afloat should be remotely controlled from the central ballast control station and
                         should also be operable locally from each side. Open/shut indicators should be
                         provided at the control station. In addition, remotely operated doors provided to
                         ensure the watertight integrity of internal openings which are used while at sea
                         are to be sliding watertight doors with audible alarm. The power, control and
                         indicators are to be operable in the event of main power failure. Particular
                         attention is to be paid to minimizing the effect of control system failure. Each
                         power-operated sliding watertight door shall be provided with an individual hand-
                         operated mechanism. It shall be possible to open and close the door by hand at
                         the door itself from both sides.

                (ii)     Doors or hatch covers in self-elevating units, or doors placed above the deepest
                         load line draft in column-stabilized and surface units, which are normally closed
                         while the unit is afloat may be of the quick acting type and should be provided
                         with an alarm system (e.g., light signals) showing personnel both locally and at
                         the central ballast control station whether the doors or hatch covers in question
                         are open or closed. A notice should be affixed to each such door or hatch cover
                         stating that it is not to be left open while the unit is afloat.

                (iii)    The closing appliances are to have strength, packing and means for securing
                         which are sufficient to maintain watertightness under the design water pressure of
                         the watertight boundary under consideration.

         (4)    Internal openings fitted with appliances to ensure watertight integrity, which are to be
                kept permanently closed while afloat, are to comply with the following:




                                                   Page 2 of 4            IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                     D7


               (i)     A signboard to the effect that the opening is always to be kept closed while afloat
D7                     is to be fitted on the closing appliance in question.
(cont)
               (ii)    Opening and closing of such closure devices should be noted in the unit’s
                       logbook, or equivalent.

               (iii)   Manholes fitted with bolted covers need not be dealt with as under (i).

               (iv)    The closing appliances are to have strength, packing and means for securing
                       which are sufficient to maintain watertightness under the design water pressure of
                       the watertight boundary under consideration.

         D7.4.3 General requirements related to weathertight integrity.

         (1)   Any opening, such as an air pipe, ventilator, ventilation intake or outlet, non-watertight
               sidescuttle, small hatch, door, etc., having its lower edge submerged below a waterline
               associated with the zones indicate in (i) or (ii) below, is to be fitted with a weathertight
               closing appliance to ensure the weathertight integrity, when:

               (i)     a unit is inclined to the range between the first intercept of the right moment curve
                       and the wind heeling moment curve and the angle necessary to comply with the
                       requirements of D3.8.1 during the intact condition of the unit while afloat; and

               (ii)    a column stabilized unit is inclined to the range:

                       a)    necessary to comply with the requirements of D3.8.3 (2)(b) and with a zone
                             measured 4.0 m perpendicularly above the final damaged waterline per
                             D3.8.3 (2)(a) referred to Fig.4, and
                       b)    necessary to comply with the requirements of D3.8.3 (3)(b).

         (2)   External openings fitted with appliances to ensure weathertight integrity, which are kept
               permanently closed while afloat, are to comply with the requirements of D7.4.2(4) (i)
               and (ii).




                                                  Page 3 of 4               IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                  D7



D7
(cont)




                                                  Fig. 4
                 Minimum weathertight integrity requirements for column stabilized units

         (3)   External openings fitted with appliances to ensure weathertight integrity, which are
               secured while afloat are to comply with the requirements of D7.4.2(3) (i) and (ii).




                                                                                              End of
                                                                                              Document




                                               Page 4 of 4            IACS Req. 1979/Rev.3 2012
                                                                                                       E10


E10
 A2          Test Specification for Type Approval
(1991)
 (cont)
(Rev.1       E10.1    General
1993)
(Rev.2       This Test Specification is applicable, but not confined, to electrical, electronic and
1997)        programmable equipment intended for control, monitoring, alarm and protection systems for
(Rev. 2.1    use in ships.
July 1999)
(Rev.3       E10.2    Testing
May 2001)
(Corr.1      These tests are to demonstrate the ability of the equipment to function as intended under the
July 2003)   specified testing conditions.
(Rev.4
May 2004)    The extent of the testing (i.e. the selection and sequence of carrying out tests and number of
(Rev.5       pieces to be tested) is to be determined upon examination and evaluation of the equipment or
Dec 2006)    component subject to testing giving due regard to its intended usage.
(Rev.6
Oct 2014)    Equipment is to be tested in its normal position if otherwise not specified in the test
(Rev.7       specification.
Oct 2018)
(Rev.8
Feb 2021)
(Corr.1      Note:
Jan 2022)
(Rev.9       1. Rev.5 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies from 1 January 2008.
Aug 2023)
(Rev.10      2. Rev.6 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies from 1 January 2016.
Aug 2024)
             3. Rev.7 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for equipment for which
                the date of application for type approval certification is dated on or after 1 January 2020.
             4. Equipment intended to be installed on ships contracted for construction on or after 1
                January 2022 is to comply with Rev.7 of this UR.

             5. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                (PR) No. 29.

             6. The “date of application for type approval” is the date of documents accepted by the
                Classification Society as request for type approval certification of a new equipment type or
                of an equipment type that has undergone substantive modifications in respect of the one
                previously type approved, or for renewal of an expired type approval certificate.

             7. Rev.8 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for equipment for which
                the date of application for type approval certification is dated on or after 1 July 2022.

             8. Rev.9 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for equipment for which
                the date of application for type approval certification is dated on or after 1 July 2024.

             9. Rev.10 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for equipment for
                which the date of application for type approval certification is dated on or after 1 January
                2026.




                                           Page 1 of 12                        IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                 E10

         Relevant tests are as listed in the Table.
E10
(cont)   Note:

         a) *      These test requirements are harmonised with IEC 60092-504:2016 “Electrical Installations in Ships – Part 504: Special features – Control
                   and Instrumentation” and IEC 60533:2015 “Electrical and electronic installations in ships – electromagnetic compatibility”. Electrical and
                   electronic equipment on board ships, required neither by classification rules nor by International Conventions, liable to cause
                   electromagnetic disturbance shall be of type which fulfil the test requirements of test specification items 19 and 20.

         b)        As used in this document, and in contrast to a complete performance test, a functional test is a simplified test sufficient to verify that the
                   equipment under test (EUT) has not suffered any deterioration caused by the individual environmental tests.

                                                               Type testing condition for equipment covered by E10.1

           NO.                 TEST                      PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                          TEST PARAMETERS                                 OTHER INFORMATION


                     * indicates the testing procedure which is normally to be applied. However, equivalent testing procedure may be accepted by the individual Society provided that the
                     Unified Requirements stated in the other columns are fulfilled. Later versions (including revisions) of the international standards specified in this UR are acceptable
                     for use, provided the Society determines them to be equivalent to the technical specifications of this UR.


              1.     Visual inspection                               -                                           -                        - conformance to drawings, design data

              2.     Performance test              Manufacturer performance test            - standard atmosphere conditions              - confirmation that operation is in accordance
                                                   programme based upon specification       - temperature: 25°C ± 10°C                    with
                                                   and relevant Rule requirements.          - relative humidity: 60% ± 30%                  the requirements specified for particular system
                                                   When the EUT is required to comply       - air pressure: 96 Kpa ± 10KPa                  or equipment;
                                                   with an international performance                                                      - checking of self-monitoring features;
                                                   standard, e.g. protection relays,                                                      - checking of specified protection against an
                                                   verification of requirements in the                                                      access to the memory;
                                                   standard are to be part of the                                                         - checking against effect of unerroneous use of
                                                   performance testing required in this                                                     control elements in the case of computer
                                                   initial test and subsequent                                                              systems.
                                                   performance tests after
                                                   environmental testing where required
                                                   in the UR.




                                                                                Page 2 of 12                                                            IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                   E10
         NO.             TEST            PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*               TEST PARAMETERS                                OTHER INFORMATION

E10      3.    External power supply
               failure
                                                  -              - 3 interruptions during 5 minutes;
                                                                 - switching-off time 30 s each case
                                                                                                               - The time of 5 minutes may be exceeded
                                                                                                                  if the equipment under test needs a longer
(cont)                                                                                                         time
         4.    Power supply variations            -                             AC SUPPLY                         for start-up, e.g. booting sequence
               a) electric                                        Combination      Voltage    Frequency        - For equipment which requires booting, one
                                                                                  variation    variation         additional power supply interruption during
                                                                                 permanent permanent             booting to be performed
                                                                                      %            %           Verification of:
                                                                        1            +6           +5           - equipment behaviour upon loss and restoration
                                                                        2            +6            -5            of supply;
                                                                        3            -10           -5          - possible corruption of programme or data held
                                                                        4            -10          +5           in
                                                                                   voltage    frequency          programmable electronic systems, where
                                                                                  transient    transient         applicable.
                                                                                    1,5 s         5s
                                                                                      %            %
                                                                        5            +20          +10
                                                                        6            -20          -10
                                                                                DC SUPPLY
                                                                  Voltage tolerance         ±10%
                                                                  continuous
                                                                  Voltage cyclic              5%
                                                                  variation
                                                                  Voltage ripple             10%

                                                                 Electric battery supply:
                                                                 - +30% to –25% for equipment connected
                                                                   to charging battery or as determined by
                                                                   the charging/discharging characteristics,
                                                                   including ripple voltage from the
                                                                   charging device;
                                                                 - +20% to –25% for equipment not
                                                                   connected to the battery during
                                                                   charging.

                                                                 Pressure: ±20%
               b) pneumatic and
                                                                 Duration: 15 minutes
               hydraulic




                                                         Page 3 of 12                                                       IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                         E10
         NO.               TEST        PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                         TEST PARAMETERS                            OTHER INFORMATION

E10      5.    Dry heat
               (see note 1)
                                  IEC 60068-2-2:2007
                                  Test Bb for non-heat dissipating
                                                                         Temperature: 55° ± 2°C
                                                                         Duration: 16 hours
                                                                                                                 - equipment operating during conditioning and
                                                                                                                   testing;
(cont)                            equipment                              or                                      - functional test (b) during the last hour at the
                                                                         Temperature: 70°C ± 2°C                 test
                                                                         Duration: 16 hours                        temperature.
                                                                                                                 - for equipment specified for increased
                                                                                                                   temperature the dry heat test is to be
                                                                                                                 conducted
                                                                                                                   at the agreed test temperature and duration.

                                  IEC 60068-2-2:2007                     Temperature: 55° ± 2°C                  - equipment operating during conditioning and
                                  Test Be for heat dissipating           Duration: 16 hours                         testing with cooling system on if provided;
                                  equipment                              or                                      - functional test (b) during the last hour at the
                                                                         Temperature: 70°C ± 2°C                 test
                                                                         Duration: 16 hours                        temperature.
                                                                                                                 - for equipment specified for increased
                                                                                                                   temperature the dry heat test is to be
                                                                                                                 conducted
                                                                                                                   at the agreed test temperature and duration.
         6.    Damp heat          IEC 60068-2-30:2005 test Db            Temperature: 55°C                       - measurement of insulation resistance before
                                                                         Humidity: 95%                             test;
                                                                         Duration: 2 cycles 2 x (12 +12 hours)   - the test shall start with 25°C ± 3°C and at least
                                                                                                                   95% humidity;
                                                                                                                 - equipment operating during the complete first
                                                                                                                   cycle and switched off during second cycle
                                                                                                                   except for functional test;
                                                                                                                 - functional test during the first 2 hours of the
                                                                                                                 first
                                                                                                                   cycle at the test temperature and during the
                                                                                                                 last
                                                                                                                   2 hours of the second cycle at the test
                                                                                                                   temperature; Duration of the second cycle can
                                                                                                                 be
                                                                                                                   extended due to more convenient handling of
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                   functional test.
                                                                                                                 - recovery at standard atmosphere conditions;
                                                                                                                 - insulation resistance measurements and
                                                                                                                   performance test.
         7.    Vibration          IEC 60068-2-6:2007 Test Fc             2 +3 Hz to 13.2 Hz – amplitude ±1mm     - duration in case of no resonance condition 90
                                                                           –0                                      minutes at 30 Hz;




                                                                 Page 4 of 12                                                  IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                         E10
         NO.                 TEST        PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                TEST PARAMETERS                                  OTHER INFORMATION

E10                                                              13.2 Hz to 100 Hz – acceleration ± 0.7 g.
                                                                 For severe vibration conditions such as,
                                                                                                                - duration at each resonance frequency at which
                                                                                                                  Q≥ 2 is recorded - 90 minutes;
(cont)                                                           e.g. on diesel engines, air compressors,       - during the vibration test, functional tests are to
                                                                 etc.:                                            be carried out;
                                                                 2.0 Hz to 25 Hz – amplitude ±1.6 mm            - tests to be carried out in three mutually
                                                                 25.0 Hz to 100 Hz – acceleration ± 4.0 g.        perpendicular planes;
                                                                                                                - it is recommended as guidance that Q does not
                                                                                                                  exceed 5.
                                                                 Note:                                          - where sweep test is to be carried out instead of
                                                                 More severe conditions may exist for             the discrete frequency test and a number of
                                                                 example on exhaust manifolds or fuel oil         resonant frequencies is detected close to each
                                                                 injection systems of diesel engines. For         other, duration of the test is to be 120 min.
                                                                 equipment specified for increased                Sweep over a restricted frequency range
                                                                 vibration levels the vibration test is to be     between 0.8 and 1.2 times the critical
                                                                 conducted at the agreed vibration level,         frequencies can be used where appropriate.
                                                                 frequency range and duration. Values             Note: Critical frequency is a frequency at which
                                                                 may be required to be in these cases 40          the equipment being tested may exhibit:
                                                                 Hz to 2000 Hz - acceleration ± 10.0g at                  - malfunction and/or performance
                                                                 600°C, duration 90 min.*                                   deterioration
                                                                                                                          - mechanical resonances and/or other
                                                                                                                            response effects occur, e.g. chatter

         8.    Inclination          IEC 60092-504:2016           Static 22.5°                                   a) inclined to the vertical at an angle of at least
                                                                                                                   22.5°
                                                                                                                b) inclined to at least 22.5° on the other side of
                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                   vertical and in the same plane as in (a),
                                                                                                                c) inclined to the vertical at an angle of at least
                                                                                                                   22.5° in plane at right angles to that used in
                                                                                                                (a),
                                                                                                                d) inclined to at least 22.5° on the other side of
                                                                                                                   the vertical and in the same plane as in (c).
                                                                                                                Note: The period of testing in each position
                                                                                                                should be sufficient to fully evaluate the
                                                                 Dynamic 22.5°                                  behaviour of the equipment.

                                                                                                                Using the directions defined in a) to d) above,
                                                                                                                the equipment is to be rolled to an angle of 22.5°
                                                                                                                each side of the vertical with a period of 10
                                                                                                                seconds.




                                                         Page 5 of 12                                                          IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                                  E10
         NO.             TEST               PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                           TEST PARAMETERS                             OTHER INFORMATION

E10                                                                                                                      The test in each direction is to be carried out for
                                                                                                                         not less than 15 minutes.
(cont)                                                                                                                   On ships for the carriage of liquified gases and
                                                                                                                         chemicals, the emergency power supply is to
                                                                                                                         remain operational with the ship flooded up to a
                                                                                                                         maximum final athwart ship inclination of 30°
                                                                                                                         (see 1983 IGC Code, clause 2.9.2.2, 2014 IGC
                                                                                                                         Code, clause 2.7.2.2, IBC Code, clause 2.9.3.2).

                                                                                                                         Note: These inclination tests are normally not
                                                                                                                         required for equipment with no moving parts.



         9.    Insulation resistance                                                                                     - For high voltage equipment, reference is made
                                        Rated supply        Test voltage                  Min. insulation resistance     to
                                        voltage Un (V)      (D.C. voltage) (V)     before test          after test         UR E11.
                                                                                   M ohms               M ohms           - insulation resistance test is to be carried out
                                            Un  65                 2 x Un                 10                    1,0       before and after: damp heat test, cold test,
                                                                   min. 24V                                                salt mist test and high voltage test;
                                            Un > 65                  500                  100                   10       - between all phases and earth; and where
                                                                                                                           appropriate, between the phases.
                                                                                                                         Note: Certain components e.g. for EMC
                                                                                                                            protection may be required to be disconnected
                                                                                                                            for this test.

         10.   High voltage                                                                                              - For high voltage equipment, reference is made
                                                    Rated voltage                     Test voltage (A.C. voltage 50 or   to
                                                       Un (V)                                       60Hz)                  UR E11.
                                                                                                     (V)                 - separate circuits are to be tested against each
                                                       Up to 65                                 2 x Un + 500               other and all circuits connected with each
                                                       66 to 250                                    1500                   other tested against earth;
                                                      251 to 500                                    2000                 - printed circuits with electronic components may
                                                      501 to 690                                    2500                   be removed during the test;
                                                                                                                         - period of application of the test voltage: 1
                                                                                                                         minute
         11.   Cold                    IEC 60068-2-1:2007                        Temperature: +5°C ± 3°C                 - initial measurement of insulation resistance;
                                                                                 Duration: 2 hours                       - equipment not operating during conditioning
                                                                                 or                                      and
                                                                                 Temperature: –25°C ± 3°C                  testing except for functional test;
                                                                                 Duration: 2 hours                       - functional test during the last hour at the test




                                                                    Page 6 of 12                                                        IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                                  E10
         NO.               TEST               PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                       TEST PARAMETERS                                OTHER INFORMATION

E10                                                                           (see note 2)                                   temperature;
                                                                                                                           - insulation resistance measurement and the
(cont)                                                                                                                       functional test after recovery

         12.   Salt mist                 IEC 60068-2-52:2017 Test Kb          Four spraying periods with a storage of 7    - initial measurement of insulation resistance
                                                                              days after each.                             and
                                                                                                                             initial functional test;
                                                                                                                           - equipment not operating during conditioning;
                                                                                                                           - functional test on the 7th day of each storage
                                                                                                                             period;
                                                                                                                           - insulation resistance measurement and
                                                                                                                             performance test 4 to 6h after recovery.
                                                                                                                             (see Note 3)
                                                                                                                           - on completion of exposure, the equipment shall
                                                                                                                             be examined to verify that deterioration or
                                                                                                                             corrosion (if any) is superficial in nature.

         13.   Electrostatic discharge   IEC 61000-4-2:2008                   Contact discharge: 6kV                       - to simulate electrostatic discharge as may
                                                                              Air discharge: 2kV, 4kV, 8kV                 occur
                                                                              Interval between single discharges: 1 sec.     when persons touch the appliance;
                                                                              No. of pulses: 10 per polarity               - the test is to be confined to the points and
                                                                              According to test level 3.                     surfaces that can normally be reached by the
                                                                                                                             operator;
                                                                                                                           - Performance Criterion B (See Note 4).

         14.   Electromagnetic field     IEC 61000-4-3:2020 or IEC 61000-4-   Frequency range:                             - to simulate electromagnetic fields radiated by
                                         3:2006+AMD1:2007+AMD2:2010           80 MHz to 6 GHz                                different transmitters;
                                                                              Modulation**: 80% AM at 1000Hz               - the test is to be confined to the appliances
                                                                              Field strength: 10V/m                          exposed to direct radiation by transmitters at
                                                                              Frequency sweep rate: ≤1.5 x 10-3              their place of installation.
                                                                              decades/s (or 1%/3 sec)                      - Performance criterion A (See Note 5)
                                                                              According to test level 3.                   **If for tests of equipment an input signal with a
                                                                                                                              modulation frequency of 1000 Hz is necessary
                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                              modulation frequency of 400 Hz may be
                                                                                                                           chosen.

                                                                                                                           - If an equipment is intended to receive radio
                                                                                                                             signals for the purpose of radio communication
                                                                                                                             (e.g. wifi router, remote radio controller), then
                                                                                                                             the immunity limits at its communication




                                                                   Page 7 of 12                                                          IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                               E10
         NO.              TEST                     PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*               TEST PARAMETERS                                 OTHER INFORMATION

E10                                                                                                                       frequency do not apply, subject to the
                                                                                                                          provisions “Specific requirements for wireless
(cont)                                                                                                                    data links” in UR E22.

         15.   Conducted low                                               AC:                                           - to stimulate distortions in the power supply
               Frequency                                                   Frequency range: rated frequency to             system generated for instance, by electronic
                                                                           200th harmonic;                                 consumers and coupled in as harmonics;
                                                                           Test voltage (rms): 10% of supply to 15th     - performance criterion A (see Note 5).
                                                                           harmonic reducing to 1% at 100th              - See figure - “Test set-up”
                                                                           harmonic and maintain this level to the       - for keeping max. 2W, the voltage of the test
                                                                           200th harmonic, min 3 V r.m.s, max 2 W.         signal may be lower.

                                                                           DC:
                                                                           Frequency range: 50 Hz - 10 kHz;
                                                                           Test voltage (rms): 10% of supply
                                                                           max. 2 W




         16.   Conducted Radio                IEC 61000-4-6:2023           AC, DC, I/O ports and signal/control lines:   - Equipment design and the choice of materials
               Frequency                                                   Frequency range: 150 kHz - 80 MHz             is
                                                                           Amplitude: 3 V rms (See Note 6)                 to stimulate electromagnetic fields coupled as
                                                                           Modulation ***: 80% AM at 1000 Hz               high frequency into the test specimen via the
                                                                           Frequency sweep range: ≤ 1.5 x                  connecting lines.
                                                                           10-3 decades/s (or 1%/3sec.)                  - performance criterion A (see Note 5).
                                                                           According to test level 2.                    *** If for tests of equipment an input signal
                                                                                                                             with a modulation frequency of 1000 Hz
                                                                                                                             is necessary a modulation frequency of
                                                                                                                             400 Hz may be chosen.


         17.   Electrical Fast Transients /   IEC 61000-4-4:2012           Single pulse rise time: 5 ns (between         - arcs generated when actuating electrical
               Burst                                                       10% and 90% value)                              contacts;
                                                                           Single pulse width: 50 ns (50% value)         - interface effect occurring on the power supply,
                                                                           Amplitude (peak): 2kV line on power           as
                                                                           supply port/earth;                              well as at the external wiring of the test
                                                                           1kV on I/O data control and                     specimen;
                                                                           communication ports (coupling clamp)          - performance criterion B (see Note 4).
                                                                           Pulse period: 300 ms;




                                                                   Page 8 of 12                                                        IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                        E10
         NO.            TEST            PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                   TEST PARAMETERS                                OTHER INFORMATION

E10                                                                 Burst duration: 15 ms;
                                                                    Duration/polarity: 5 min
(cont)                                                              According to test level 3.



         18.   Surge               IEC 61000-4-5:2014+AMD1:2017     Test applicable to AC and DC power ports    - interference generated for instance, by
                                                                    Open-circuit voltage:                       switching
                                                                    Pulse rise time: 1.2 µs (front time)          “ON” or “OFF” high power inductive
                                                                    Pulse width: 50 µs (time to half value)     consumers;
                                                                    Amplitude (peak): 1kV line/earth;           - test procedure in accordance with figure 10 of
                                                                    0.5kV line/line                               the standard for equipment where power and
                                                                    Short-circuit current:                        signal lines are identical;
                                                                    Pulse rise time: 8 µs (front time)          - performance criterion B (see Note 4).
                                                                    Pulse width: 20 µs (time to half value)
                                                                    Repetition rate: ≥ 1 pulse/min
                                                                    No of pulses: 5 per polarity
                                                                    Application: continuous
                                                                    According to test level 2.



         19.   Radiated Emission   CISPR 16-2-                      Limits below 1000 MHz                       - procedure in accordance with the standard but
                                   3:2016+AMD1:2019+AMD2:2023                                                     distance 3 m between equipment and antenna
                                   IEC 60945:2002 for 156-165 MHz   For equipment installed in the bridge and   - for the frequency band 156 MHz to 165 MHz
                                                                    deck zone.                                    the measurement shall be repeated with a
                                                                                                                  receiver bandwidth of 9 kHz (as per IEC
                                                                     Frequency range:      Quasi peak limits:   60945:2002).
                                                                     0.15 - 0.3 MHz        80 - 52 dBµV/m       - alternatively the radiation limit at a distance of
                                                                     0.3 - 30    MHz       52 - 34 dBµV/m         3 m from the enclosure port over the frequency
                                                                     30 - 1000 MHz         54       dBµV/m        156 MHz to 165 MHz shall be 30 dB micro-V/m
                                                                     except for:                                  Peak (as per IEC 60945:2002).
                                                                     156 -165 MHz          24      dBµV/m

                                                                    For equipment installed in the general
                                                                    power distribution zone.

                                                                     Frequency range:      Quasi peak limits:
                                                                     0.15 - 30 MHz         80 - 50 dBµV/m
                                                                     30 - 100 MHz          60 - 54 dBµV/m
                                                                     100 - 1000 MHz        54      dBµV/m




                                                            Page 9 of 12                                                      IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                                       E10
         NO.            TEST             PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*                  TEST PARAMETERS                               OTHER INFORMATION

E10                                                                  except for:
                                                                     156 -165 MHz          24       dBµV/m
(cont)
                                                                    Limits above 1000 MHz

                                                                     Frequency range:      Average limit:       - procedure in accordance with the standard
                                                                     1000 - 6000 MHz       54 dBµV/m              (distance 3 m between equipment and
                                                                                                                antenna)
                                                                                                                -Equipment intended to transmit radio signals for
                                                                                                                the purpose of radio communication (e.g. wifi
                                                                                                                router, remote radio controller) may be
                                                                                                                exempted from limit, within its communication
                                                                                                                frequency range, subject to the provisions“
                                                                                                                Specific requirements for wireless data links” in
                                                                                                                UR E22.
         20.   Conducted Emission   CISPR 16-2-1:2014+AMD1:2017     Test applicable to AC and DC power ports

                                                                    For equipment installed in the bridge and
                                                                    deck zone.

                                                                     Frequency range:      Limits:
                                                                     10 - 150 kHz          96 - 50 dBµV
                                                                     150 - 350 kHz         60 - 50 dBµV
                                                                     350 kHz - 30 MHz      50      dBµV



                                                                    For equipment installed in the general
                                                                    power distribution zone.

                                                                     Frequency range:      Limits:
                                                                     10 - 150 kHz          120 - 69 dBµV
                                                                     150 - 500 kHz         79       dBµV
                                                                     0.5 - 30  MHz         73       dBµV


         21.   Flame retardant      IEC 60092-101:2018 or           Flame application: 5 times 15 s each.       - the burnt out or damaged part of the specimen
                                                                    Interval between each application:            by not more than 60 mm long.
                                                                    15s or 1 time 30s.                          - no flame, no incandescence or
                                                                                                                - in the event of a flame or incandescence
                                                                    Test criteria based upon application.         being present, it shall extinguish itself within




                                                            Page 10 of 12                                                     IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                                                     E10
         NO.   TEST        PROCEDURE ACC. TO:*               TEST PARAMETERS                               OTHER INFORMATION

E10                   IEC 60695-11-5:2016           The test is performed with the EUT or
                                                                                                 30 s of the removal of the needle flame
                                                                                                 without full combustion of the test specimen.
(cont)                                              housing of the EUT applying needle-flame   - any dripping material shall extinguish itself
                                                    test method.                                 in such a way as not to ignite a wrapping
                                                                                                 tissue. The drip height is 200 mm ± 5 mm.




                                            Page 11 of 12                                                    IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                               E10


E10      Notes:
(cont)   1.   Dry heat at 70 °C is to be carried out to automation, control and instrumentation
              equipment subject to high degree of heat, for example mounted in consoles, housings,
              etc. together with other heat dissipating power equipment.

         2.   For equipment installed in non-weather protected locations or cold locations test is to
              be carried out at –25°C.

         3.   Salt mist test is to be carried out for equipment installed in weather exposed areas.

         4.   Performance Criterion B: (For transient phenomena): The EUT shall continue to
              operate as intended after the tests. No degradation of performance or loss of function is
              allowed as defined in the technical specification published by the manufacturer. During
              the test, degradation or loss of function or performance which is self recoverable is
              however allowed but no change of actual operating state or stored data is allowed.

         5.   Performance Criterion A: (For continuous phenomena): The Equipment Under Test
              shall continue to operate as intended during and after the test. No degradation of
              performance or loss of function is allowed as defined in relevant equipment standard
              and the technical specification published by the manufacturer.

         6.   For equipment installed on the bridge and deck zone, the test levels shall be increased
              to 10V rms for spot frequencies in accordance with IEC 60945:2002 at 2, 3, 4, 6.2, 8.2,
              12.6, 16.5, 18.8, 22, 25 MHz.




                                                                                        End of
                                                                                        Document



                                    Page 12 of 12                       IACS Req. 1991/Rev.10 2024
                                                                                                  E18



E18      Recording of the Type, Location and
(July
(cont)
2003)    Maintenance Cycle of Batteries
(Rev.1
Dec      1. Where batteries are fitted for use for essential (UI SC134) and emergency services a
2014)    schedule of such batteries is to be compiled and maintained. The schedule, which is to be
(Rev.2   reviewed by the Society during plan approval or the newbuilding survey, is to include at least
June     the following information regarding the battery(ies):
2025)
         -       Type and manufacturer’s type designation.

         -       Voltage and ampere-hour rating.

         -       Location.

         -       Equipment and/or system(s) served.

         -       Maintenance/replacement cycle dates.

         -       Date(s) of last maintenance and/or replacement.

         -       For replacement batteries in storage, the date of manufacture and shelf life.1

         2. Procedures are to be put in place to ensure that where batteries are replaced that they are
         of an equivalent performance type.

         3. Where vented2 type batteries and/or valve-regulated sealed3 type batteries are installed, it
         is to be ensured that there is adequate ventilation4. For vented type batteries, the Society’s
         requirements relevant to the location and installation are complied with.

         4. Details of the schedule and of the procedures are to be included in the ship’s safety
         management system and be integrated into the ship’s operational maintenance routine as
         appropriate5 to be verified by the Society’s surveyor.




         Note:

         1.      Rev.1 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies from
                 1 January 2016.

         2.      Rev.2 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for ships contracted
                 for construction on or after 1 July 2026.

         3.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                 vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                 regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                 (PR) No. 29.




                                                Page 1 of 2                 IACS Req. 2003/Rev.2 2025
                                                                                                  E18



E18
(cont)
         1 Shelf life is the duration of storage under specified conditions at the end of which a battery
         retains the ability to give a specified performance.

         2 A vented type battery is one in which the cells have a cover provided with an opening
         through which products of electrolysis and evaporation are allowed to escape freely from the
         cells to atmosphere.

         3 A valve-regulated sealed type battery is one in which cells are closed but have an
         arrangement (valve) which allows the escape of gas if the internal pressure exceeds a
         predetermined value.

         4 The ventilation arrangements for installation of batteries which have charging power higher
         than 2kW are to be such that the quantity of air expelled is at least equal to:

            1)   Vented type batteries
                 Q = 110ln

                 where

                      n = number of cells in series

                      I = maximum current delivered by the charging equipment during gas formation,
                      but not less than 25 per cent of the maximum obtainable charging current in
                      amperes

                      Q = quantity of air expelled in litres/hr.

            2)   Valve-regulated sealed type batteries
                 The ventilation rate for compartments containing valve-regulated sealed type batteries
                 may be reduced to 25 per cent of that given above.

         Alternatively, other industrial standards may be utilized to calculate ventilation rate, for
         example, section 7.2 and 7.3 of IEC 62485-2:2010, or section CC.2 of Annex CC to IEC
         62040-1:2017, as appropriate.

         5 See section 10 of the IMO ISM Code.

                                                                                           End of
                                                                                           Document




                                                Page 2 of 2                 IACS Req. 2003/Rev.2 2025
                                                                                                          E21



E21
E21        Requirements for uninterruptible power system
(Sep 2005)
 (cont)
(Rev.1
           (UPS) units
Feb 2021)
(Corr.1    1.           Application
June 2022)
(Rev.2     1.1          These requirements apply to UPS units, for the following cases:
Feb 2024)
              .1 when providing an alternative power supply as an accumulator battery in terms of being
              an independent power supply for the emergency services defined in SOLAS II-1/42.2.3 or
              SOLAS II-1/43.2.4,

              .2 when providing an alternative power supply or transitional power supply to any other
              emergency services as defined in SOLAS II-1/42 and SOLAS II-1/43,

              .3 where required, constituting a means of continuous and uninterruptible power supply to
              essential services as defined in IACS UI SC134 for SOLAS II-1/40 and SOLAS II-1/41, or

              .4 when providing power supply in accordance with conditions specified and mandated by
              FSS Code Chapter 9, 2.2.2 to 2.2.4.


           1.2      These requirements may be referenced to UPS units for other cases than above in
           1.1, and the application of requirements is at the discretion of the Society.


           Notes:

           1. Rev.1 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies:

              i)       when an application for certification of UPS is dated on or after 1 July 2022; or

              ii)      which are installed in new ships contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2022.

           2. Rev.2 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies:

                 i)    when an application for certification of UPS is dated on or after 1 July 2025 or

                 ii)   which are installed in new ships contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2025.

           3. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
              vessel is signed between the prospective owner and shipbuilder. For further details
              regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
              (PR) No. 29.

           4. The “date of application for certification of UPS” is the date of whatever document the
              Classification Society requires/accepts as an application or request for certification of UPS.




                                           Page 1 of 4                           IACS Req. 2005/Rev.2 2024
                                                                                              E21


         2.      Definitions
E21
(cont)   Uninterruptible Power System (UPS)
         Combination of converters, switches and energy storage devices (such as batteries),
         constituting a power system for maintaining continuity of load power in case of AC input
         power failure. [IEC 62040-3:2021]

         Double Conversion topology
         A UPS topology comprises an AC to DC converter, generally a rectifier, and a DC to AC
         converter, generally an inverter. When the AC input power is out of UPS pre-set tolerances,
         the UPS enters stored energy mode. (Refer to Annex B to IEC 62040-3:2021)




         Line interactive topology
         A UPS topology comprises bidirectional AC to DC power conversion, generally through a
         bidirectional converter and an AC power interface. When AC input power voltage or
         frequency is out of UPS pre-set tolerances, the UPS runs in stored energy mode. (Refer to
         Annex B to IEC 62040-3:2021)




         Standby topology
         A UPS topology comprises a battery charger, a DC to AC converter, generally a unidirectional
         inverter and a UPS switch. When the AC input power is out of UPS pre-set tolerances, the
         UPS operates in stored energy mode. (Refer to Annex B to IEC 62040-3:2021)



                                    Page 2 of 4                          IACS Req. 2005/Rev.2 2024
                                                                                                 E21



E21
(cont)




         Energy storage device
         System consisting of a single or multiple devices designed to provide power to the UPS
         inverter/converter. [IEC 62040-3:2021]

         AC input power failure
         Variation in the AC input power which could cause the UPS to operate in stored energy mode.
         [IEC 62040-3:2021]

         Bidirectional converter
         Converter which has the functions of both a rectifier and an inverter, and which can reverse
         the flow of power from AC to DC and vice-versa. [IEC 62040-3:2021]

         3.       Design and construction

         3.1       UPS units are to be constructed in accordance with IEC 62040-
         1:2017+AMD1:2021+AMD2:2022, IEC 62040-2:2016, IEC 62040-3:2021, IEC 62040-4:2013
         and/or IEC 62040-5-3:2016, as applicable, or an acceptable and relevant national or
         international standard.

         3.2      The operation of the UPS is not to depend upon external services.

         3.3     The configuration and topology of UPS unit employed is to be appropriate to the
         power supply requirements of the connected load equipment.

         3.4      When external bypass is provided, bypass transfer switch is to be arranged to
         protect the load against power disturbances or interruption arising from inrush or fault current.
         (Refer to Annex C to IEC 62040-3:2021)

         3.5     The UPS unit is to be monitored and audible and visual alarm is to be given in
         continuously manned station(s) for

         - power supply failure (voltage and frequency) to the connected load,


                                     Page 3 of 4                           IACS Req. 2005/Rev.2 2024
                                                                                                  E21


         - earth fault,
E21
(cont)   - operation of battery protective device,

         - when the battery is being discharged,

         - when the bypass is in operation in case an external bypass is provided, and

         - any other fault and abnormal conditions of the UPS unit, as applicable.

         4.        Location

         4.1      The UPS unit for emergency services in paragraphs 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 is to be suitably
         located for use in an emergency.

         4.2      UPS units utilising valve regulated sealed batteries may be located in compartments
         with normal electrical equipment, provided the ventilation arrangements are in accordance
         with the requirements of IEC 62040-1:2017+AMD1:2021+AMD2:2022, IEC 62040-2:2016,
         IEC 62040-3:2021, IEC 62040-4:2013 and/or IEC 62040-5-3:2016, as applicable, or an
         acceptable and relevant national or international standard.

         5.        Performance

         5.1    The output power is to be maintained for the duration required for the connected
         equipment as stated in SOLAS II-1/42 or SOLAS II-1/43.

         5.2     No additional circuits are to be connected to the UPS unit without verification that the
         UPS unit has adequate capacity. The UPS battery capacity is, at all times, to be capable of
         supplying the designated loads for the time specified in the regulations.

         5.3     On restoration of the input power, the rating of the charge unit shall be sufficient to
         recharge the batteries while maintaining the output supply to the load equipment.

         6.        Testing and survey

         6.1    UPS units of 50 kVA and over are to be surveyed by the Society during
         manufacturing and testing, in accordance with paragraph 6.2.

         6.2        Appropriate testing is to be carried out to demonstrate that the UPS unit is suitable
         for its intended environment. This is expected to include as a minimum the following tests:

         - Functionality, including operation of alarms in paragraph 3.5;

         - Temperature rise;

         - Ventilation rate;

         - Battery capacity.

         6.3        Where the supply is to be maintained without a break following a power input failure,
         this is to be verified after installation by practical test.

                                                                                          End of
                                                                                          Document


                                     Page 4 of 4                            IACS Req. 2005/Rev.2 2024
                                                                                                      E25


E25      Failure detection and response of all types of
E252016)
(June
(cont)
(Rev.1   steering gear control systems
Dec 2019)
(Rev.2
            1.      Application
Mar 2022)
            1.1 This UR applies to Steering Gear Control System as defined in UR M42 Appendix 1
            Item 1.

            2.      Failure detection

            2.1 The most probable failures that may cause reduced or erroneous system performance
            shall be automatically detected and at least the following failure scenarios shall be
            considered:

                    (a)   Power supply failure

                    (b)   Earth fault on AC and DC circuits

                    (c)   Loop failures in closed loop systems, both command and feedback loops
                          (normally short circuit, broken connections and earth faults)

                    (d)   Data communication errors

                    (e)   Programmable system failures (Hardware and software failures)

                    (f)   Deviation between rudder order and feedback*

                    *     Deviation alarm shall be initiated if the rudder’s actual position does not reach the
                          set point within acceptable time limits for the closed loop control systems (e.g.
                          follow-up control and autopilot). Deviation alarm may be caused by mechanical,
                          hydraulic or electrical failures.

            2.2 All failures detected shall initiate audible and individual visual alarm on the navigation
            bridge.


            Note:

            1.      This UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted for
                    construction (as defined in IACS PR29) on or after 1 July 2017.

            2.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                    vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                    regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                    (PR) No. 29.

            3.      Rev.1 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted
                    for construction on or after 1 January 2021.

            4.      Rev.2 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted
                    for construction on or after 1 July 2023.




                                          Page 1 of 2                        IACS Req. 2016/Rev.2 2022
                                                                                               E25

         3.   System response upon failure
E25      3.1 The failures (as defined but not limited to those in 2.1) likely to cause uncontrolled
(cont)   movements of rudder are to be clearly identified. In the event of detection of such failure, the
         rudder is to stop in the current position without manual intervention or, subject to the
         discretion of the Classification Society, is to return to the midship/neutral position. For
         mechanical failures such as sticking valves and failure of static components (pipes, cylinders),
         the system response without manual intervention is not mandatory, and the operator can follow
         instructions on the signboard in case of such failures, in accordance with UR M42.13.


         Note: For hydraulic locking failure, refer also to UR M42.12.2 and 42.13.


                                                                                       End of
                                                                                       document




                                     Page 2 of 2                       IACS Req. 2016/Rev.2 2022
                                                                                                         E26


E26
 E26         Cyber resilience of ships
(Apr 2022)
  (cont)
(Rev.1
Nov 2023     1.       Introduction
Complete
Revision)    Interconnection of computer systems on ships, together with the widespread use onboard of
             commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products, open the possibility for attacks to affect personnel
             data, human safety, the safety of the ship, and threaten the marine environment.

             Attackers may target any combination of people and technology to achieve their aim,
             wherever there is a network connection or any other interface between onboard systems and
             the external world. Safeguarding ships, and shipping in general, from current and emerging
             threats involves a range of measures that are continually evolving.

             It is then necessary to establish a common set of minimum functional and performance
             criteria to deliver a ship that can indeed be described as cyber resilient.

             IACS considers that minimum requirements applied consistently to the full threat surface
             using a goal-based approach is necessary to make cyber resilient ships.

             1.1 Structure of this UR
                                          Table 1: Structure of this UR
                             1 Introduction
               Introductory
                             2 Definitions
               Part
                             3 Goals and Organization of Requirements
                             4 Requirements
                               4.1 Identify
                               4.2 Protect
                               4.3 Detect
                               4.4 Respond
               Main Part
                               4.5 Recover
                             5 Demonstration of compliance
                               5.1 During design and construction phases
                               5.2 Upon ship commissioning
                               5.3 During the operational life of the ship
                             6 Risk assessment for exclusion of CBS from the application of
               Supplementary
                               requirements (required only when systems are excluded from
               Part
                               application of this UR)
                             Appendix I: Summary of actions and documents
                             Appendix II: Summary of requirements and documents

             Note:

              1.     The Unified Requirement published in April 2022 was withdrawn before coming into
                     force on 1 January 2024

              2.     Rev.1 to this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted
                     for construction on or after 1 July 2024 and may be used for other ships as non-
                     mandatory guidance.

              3.     The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                     vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details



                                                  Page 1 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


                regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
E26             (PR) No. 29.
(cont)
         1.2 Aim and purpose
         The aim of this UR is to provide a minimum set of requirements for cyber resilience of ships,
         with the purpose of providing technical means to stakeholders which would lead to cyber
         resilient ships.

         This UR targets the ship as a collective entity for cyber resilience and is intended as a base
         for the complementary application of other URs and industry standards addressing cyber
         resilience of onboard systems, equipment and components.

         Minimum requirements for cyber resilience of on-board systems and equipment are given in
         IACS UR E27.

         1.3 Scope of applicability
         1.3.1 Vessels in scope

         This UR is applicable to the following vessels:

            -    Passenger ships (including passenger high-speed craft) engaged in international
                 voyages

            -    Cargo ships of 500 GT and upwards engaged in international voyages

            -    High speed craft of 500 GT and upwards engaged in international voyages

            -    Mobile offshore drilling units of 500 GT and upwards

            -    Self-propelled mobile offshore units engaged in construction (i.e. wind turbine
                 installation maintenance and repair, crane units, drilling tenders, accommodation, etc)

         This UR may be used as non-mandatory guidance to the following.

            -    Ships of war and troopships

            -    Cargo ships less than 500 GT

            -    Vessels not propelled by mechanical means

            -    Wooden ships of primitive build

            -    Passenger yachts (passengers not more than 12)

            -    Pleasure yachts not engaged in trade

            -    Fishing vessels

            -    Site specific offshore installations (i.e. FPSOs, FSUs, etc.)




                                             Page 2 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                          E26


         1.3.2 Systems in scope
E26
(cont)   This UR applies to:

         a)    Operational Technology (OT) systems onboard ships, i.e. those CBSs using data to
         control or monitor physical processes that can be vulnerable to cyber incidents and, if
         compromised, could lead to dangerous situations for human safety, safety of the vessel
         and/or threat to the environment.

         In particular, the CBSs used for the operation of the following ship functions and systems, if
         present onboard, shall be considered:

            -   Propulsion

            -   Steering

            -   Anchoring and mooring

            -   Electrical power generation and distribution

            -   Fire detection and extinguishing systems

            -   Bilge and ballast systems, loading computer

            -   Watertight integrity and flooding detection

            -   Lighting (e.g. emergency lighting, low locations, navigation lights, etc.)

            -   Any required safety system whose disruption or functional impairing may pose risks to
                ship operations (e.g. emergency shutdown system, cargo safety system, pressure
                vessel safety system, gas detection system, etc.)

         In addition, the following systems shall be included in the scope of applicability of this UR:

            -   Navigational systems required by statutory regulations

            -   Internal and external communication systems required by class rules and statutory
                regulations

         For navigation and radiocommunication systems, the application of IEC 61162-460 or other
         equivalent standards in lieu of the required security capabilities in UR E27 section 4 may be
         accepted by the Society, on the condition that requirements in UR E26 are complied with.

         b)   Any Internet Protocol (IP)-based communication interface from CBSs in scope of this
         UR to other systems. Examples of such systems are, but not limited to, the following:

            -   passenger or visitor servicing and management systems

            -   passenger-facing networks

            -   administrative networks

            -   crew welfare systems




                                             Page 3 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


            -   any other systems connected to OT systems, either permanently or temporarily (e.g.
E26             during maintenance).
(cont)
         The cyber incidents considered in this UR are events resulting from any offensive manoeuvre
         that targets OT systems onboard ships as defined in section 2.

         1.3.3 System Category

         System categories are defined in IACS UR E22 on the basis of the consequences of a
         system failure to human safety, safety of the vessel and/or threat to the environment.

         1.3.4 IACS Documents on Computer Based Systems and Cyber Resilience

         Attention is made to additional IACS documents on CBSs and Cyber Resilience as follows:

         IACS UR E22 Computer Based Systems includes requirements for design, construction,
         commissioning and maintenance of computer-based systems where they depend on software
         for the proper achievement of their functions. The requirements in E22 focus on the
         functionality of the software and on the hardware supporting the software which provide
         control, alarm, monitoring, safety or internal communication functions subject to classification
         requirements.

         IACS UR E27 Cyber resilience of on-board systems and equipment includes requirements for
         cyber resilience for on-board systems and equipment.

         IACS Recommendation 166 Recommendation on Cyber Resilience: non-mandatory
         recommended technical requirements that stakeholders may reference and apply to assist
         with the delivery of cyber resilient ships, whose resilience can be maintained throughout their
         service life. IACS Recommendation 166 on Cyber Resilience is intended for ships contracted
         for construction after its publication and may be used as a reference for ships already in
         service prior to its publication. For ships to which this UR applies as mandatory instrument,
         when both this UR and Recommendation 166 are used, should any difference in
         requirements addressing the same topic be found between the two instruments, the
         requirements in this UR shall prevail.




                                            Page 4 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26



E26      2.     Definitions
(cont)
         In the purview of this UR, the following definitions apply:

         Annual survey: See UR Z18

         Attack Surface: The set of all possible points where an unauthorized user can access a
         system, cause an effect on or extract data from. The attack surface comprises two
         categories: digital and physical. The digital attack surface encompasses all the hardware and
         software that connect to an organization’s network. These include applications, code, ports,
         servers and websites. The physical attack surface comprises all endpoint devices that an
         attacker can gain physical access to, such as desktop computers, hard drives, laptops,
         mobile phones, removable drives and carelessly discarded hardware.

         Authentication: Provision of assurance that a claimed characteristic of an entity is correct.

         Compensating countermeasure: An alternate solution to a countermeasure employed in
         lieu of or in addition to inherent security capabilities to satisfy one or more security
         requirements.

         Computer Based System (CBS): A programmable electronic device, or interoperable set of
         programmable electronic devices, organized to achieve one or more specified purposes such
         as collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of
         information. CBSs onboard include IT and OT systems. A CBS may be a combination of
         subsystems connected via network. Onboard CBSs may be connected directly or via public
         means of communications (e.g. Internet) to ashore CBSs, other vessels’ CBSs and/or other
         facilities.

         Cyber incident: An event resulting from any offensive manoeuvre, either intentional or
         unintentional, that targets or affects one or more CBS onboard, which actually or potentially
         results in adverse consequences to an onboard system, network and computer or the
         information that they process, store or transmit, and which may require a response action to
         mitigate the consequences. Cyber incidents include unauthorized access, misuse,
         modification, destruction or improper disclosure of the information generated, archived or
         used in onboard CBS or transported in the networks connecting such systems. Cyber
         incidents do not include system failures.

         Cyber resilience: The capability to reduce the occurrence and mitigating the effects of cyber
         incidents arising from the disruption or impairment of operational technology (OT) used for
         the safe operation of a ship, which potentially lead to dangerous situations for human safety,
         safety of the vessel and/or threat to the environment.

         Essential services: Services for propulsion and steering, and safety of the ship. Essential
         services comprise "Primary Essential Services" and "Secondary Essential Services": Primary
         Essential Services are those services which need to be in continuous operation to maintain
         propulsion and steering; Secondary Essential Services are those services which need not
         necessarily be in continuous operation to maintain propulsion and steering but which are
         necessary for maintaining the vessel’s safety.

         Information Technology (IT): Devices, software and associated networking focusing on the
         use of data as information, as opposed to Operational Technology (OT).

         Integrated system: A system combining a number of interacting sub-systems and/or
         equipment organized to achieve one or more specified purposes.


                                             Page 5 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                        E26



E26      Logical network segment: The same as “Network segment”, but where two or more logical
(cont)   network segments share the same physical components.

         Network: A connection between two or more computers for the purpose of communicating
         data electronically by means of agreed communication protocols.

         Network segment: In the context of this UR, a network segment is an OSI layer-2 Ethernet
         segment (a broadcast domain).

         Note on TCP/IP: Network address plan is prefixed by their IP addresses and the network
         mask. Communication between network segments is only possible by the use of routing
         service at network layer (OSI Layer 3).

         Operational Technology (OT): Devices, sensors, software and associated networking that
         monitor and control onboard systems. Operational technology systems may be thought of as
         focusing on the use of data to control or monitor physical processes.

         Physical network segment: The same as “Network segment”, but where physical
         components are not shared by other network segments.

         Protocol: A common set of rules and signals that computers on the network use to
         communicate. Protocols allow to perform data communication, network management and
         security. Onboard networks usually implement protocols based on TCP/IP stacks or various
         fieldbuses.

         Security zone: A collection of CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR that meet the
         same security requirements. Each zone consists of a single interface or a group of interfaces,
         to which an access control policy is applied.

         Shipowner/Company: The owner of the ship or any other organization or person, such as
         the manager, agent or bareboat charterer, who has assumed the responsibility for operation
         of the ship from the shipowner and who on assuming such responsibilities has agreed to take
         over all the attendant duties and responsibilities. The shipowner could be the Shipyard or
         systems integrator during initial construction. After vessel delivery, the shipowner may
         delegate some responsibilities to the vessel management company.

         Special survey: See UR Z18

         Supplier: A manufacturer or provider of hardware and/or software products, system
         components or equipment (hardware or software) comprising of the application, embedded
         devices, network devices, host devices etc. working together as system or a subsystem. The
         supplier is responsible for providing programmable devices, sub-systems or systems to the
         systems integrator.

         Systems Integrator: The specific person or organization responsible for the integration of
         systems and products provided by suppliers into the system invoked by the requirements in
         the ship specifications and for providing the integrated system. The systems integrator may
         also be responsible for integration of systems in the ship. Until vessel delivery, this role shall
         be taken by the Shipyard unless an alternative organization is specifically
         contracted/assigned this responsibility.

         Untrusted network: Any network outside the scope of applicability of this UR.




                                             Page 6 of 56                    IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                        E26



E26      3.       Goals and organization of requirements
(cont)
         3.1 Primary goal
         The primary goal is to support safe and secure shipping, which is operationally resilient to
         cyber risks.

         Safe and secure shipping can be achieved through effective cyber risk management system.
         To support safe and secure shipping resilient to cyber risk, the following sub-goals for the
         management of cyber risk are defined in the five functional elements listed in section 3.2
         below.

         3.2 Sub-goals per functional element
              1. Identify: Develop an organizational understanding to manage cybersecurity risk to
                 onboard systems, people, assets, data, and capabilities.

              2. Protect: Develop and implement appropriate safeguards to protect the ship against
                 cyber incidents and maximize continuity of shipping operations.

              3. Detect: Develop and implement appropriate measures to detect and identify the
                 occurrence of a cyber incident onboard.

              4. Respond: Develop and implement appropriate measures and activities to take action
                 regarding a detected cyber incident onboard.

              5. Recover: Develop and implement appropriate measures and activities to restore any
                 capabilities or services necessary for shipping operations that were impaired due to a
                 cyber incident.

         These sub-goals and relevant functional elements should be concurrent and considered as
         parts of a single comprehensive risk management framework.

         3.3 Organization of requirements
         The requirements are organized according to a goal-based approach. Functional/technical
         requirements are given for the achievement of specific sub-goals of each functional element.
         The requirements are intended to allow a uniform implementation by stakeholders and to
         make them applicable to all types of vessels, in such a way as to enable an acceptable level
         of resilience and apply to all classed vessels/units regardless of operational risks and
         complexity of OT systems.

         For each requirement, a rationale is given.

         A summary of actions to be carried out and documentation to be made available is also given
         for each phase of the ship’s life and relevant stakeholders participating to such phase.




                                              Page 7 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26



E26      4.       Requirements
(cont)
         This section contains the requirements to be satisfied in order to achieve the primary goal
         defined in 3.1, organized according to the five functional elements identified in 3.2.

         The requirements shall be fulfilled by the stakeholders involved in the design, building and
         operation of the ship. Among them, the following stakeholders can be identified (see also
         section 2 for definitions):

              -   Shipowner/Company

              -   Systems integrator

              -   Supplier

              -   Classification Society

         Whilst the above requirements may be fulfilled by these stakeholders, for the purposes of this
         UR, responsibility to fulfil them will lie with the stakeholder who has contracted with the
         Classification Society.

         4.1 Identify
         The requirements for the ‘Identify’ functional element are aimed at identifying: on one side,
         the CBSs onboard, their interdependencies and the relevant information flows; on the other
         side, the key resources involved in their management, operation and governance, their roles
         and responsibilities.

         4.1.1 Vessel asset inventory

         4.1.1.1 Requirement

         An inventory of hardware and software (including application programs, operating systems, if
         any, firmware and other software components) of the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this
         UR and of the networks connecting such systems to each other and to other CBSs onboard
         or ashore shall be provided and kept up to date during the entire life of the ship.

         4.1.1.2 Rationale

         The inventory of CBSs onboard and relevant software used in OT systems, is essential for an
         effective management of cyber resilience of the ship, the main reason being that every CBS
         becomes a potential point of vulnerability. Cybercriminals can exploit unaccounted and out-of-
         date hardware and software to hack systems. Moreover, managing CBS assets enables
         Companies understand the criticality of each system to ship safety objectives.

         4.1.1.3 Requirement details

         The vessel asset inventory shall include at least the CBSs indicated in 1.3.2, if present
         onboard.

         The inventory shall be kept updated during the entire life of the ship. Software and hardware
         modifications potentially introducing new vulnerabilities or modifying functional dependencies
         or connections among systems shall be recorded in the inventory.



                                            Page 8 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26


         If confidential information is included in the inventory (e.g. IP addresses, protocols, port
E26      numbers), special measures shall be adopted to limit the access to such information only to
(cont)   authorized people.

         4.1.1.3.1 Hardware

         For all hardware devices in the scope of applicability of this UR, the vessel asset inventory
         shall include at least the information in UR E27 section 3.1.1.

         In addition, the vessel asset inventory may specify system category and security zone
         associated with the CBS.

         4.1.1.3.2 Software

         For all software in the scope of applicability of this UR (e.g., application program, operating
         system, firmware), the vessel asset inventory shall include at least the information in UR E27
         section 3.1.1

         The software of the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR shall be maintained and
         updated in accordance with the shipowner's process for management of software
         maintenance and update policy in the Ship cyber security and resilience program, see section
         5.3.1.

         4.1.1.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.1.1.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall submit vessel asset inventory to the Society (ref. section 5.1.3).

         The vessel asset inventory shall incorporate the asset inventories of all individual CBSs
         falling under the scope of this UR. Any equipment in the scope of this UR delivered by the
         systems integrator shall also be included in the vessel asset inventory.

         4.1.1.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall keep the vessel asset inventory updated.

         4.1.1.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society that:

            -   Vessel asset inventory is updated and completed at delivery

            -   CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR are correctly represented by the vessel
                asset inventory

            -   Software of the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR has been kept updated,
                e.g. by vulnerability scanning or by checking the software versions of CBSs while
                switched on.

         4.1.1.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.



                                            Page 9 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26


         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the process of
E26      management of change (MoC) for the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR,
(cont)   addressing at least the following requirements in this UR:

            -   Management of change (section 5.3)

            -   Hardware and software modifications (section 4.1.1.3)

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program also describe the
         management of software updates, addressing at least the following requirements in this UR:

            -   Vulnerabilities and cyber risks (section 4.1.1.2 and 4.1.1.3)

            -   Security patching (section 4.2.6.3.2)

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   The approved management of change process has been adhered to.

            -   Known vulnerabilities and functional dependencies have been considered for the
                software in the CBSs.

            -   The Vessel asset inventory has been kept updated.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         Special Survey

         The shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the activities in section 4.1.1.4.3 as per the
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.2 Protect
         The requirements for the Protect functional element are aimed at the development and
         implementation of appropriate safeguards supporting the ability to limit or contain the impact
         of a potential incident.

         4.2.1 Security Zones and Network Segmentation

         4.2.1.1 Requirement

         All CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR shall be grouped into security zones with
         well-defined security policies and security capabilities. Security zones shall either be isolated
         (i.e. air gapped) or connected to other security zones or networks by means providing control
         of data communicated between the zones (e.g. firewalls/routers, simplex serial links, TCP/IP
         diodes, dry contacts, etc.)



                                             Page 10 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                        E26


         Only explicitly allowed traffic shall traverse a security zone boundary.
E26
(cont)   4.2.1.2 Rationale

         While networks may be protected by firewall perimeter and include Intrusion Detection
         Systems (IDS) or Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) to monitor traffic coming in, breaching
         that perimeter is always possible. Network segmentation makes it more difficult for an
         attacker to perpetrate an attack throughout the entire network.

         The main benefits of security zones and network segmentation are to reduce the extent of the
         attack surface, prevent attackers from achieving lateral movement through systems, and
         improve network performance. The concept of allocating the CBSs into security zones allows
         grouping the CBSs in accordance with their risk profile.

         4.2.1.3 Requirement details

         A security zone may contain multiple CBSs and networks, all of which shall comply with
         applicable security requirements given in this UR and UR E27.

         The network(s) of a security zone shall be logically or physically segmented from other zones
         or networks. See also 4.2.6.3.

         CBSs providing required safety functions shall be grouped into separate security zones and
         shall be physically segmented from other security zones.

         Navigational and communication systems shall not be in same security zone as machinery or
         cargo systems. If navigation and/or radiocommunication systems are approved in accordance
         with other equivalent standard(s) (see section 1.3.2), these systems should be in a dedicated
         security zone.

         Wireless devices shall be in dedicated security zones. See also 4.2.5.

         Systems, networks or CBSs outside the scope of applicability of this UR are considered
         untrusted networks and shall be physically segmented from security zones required by this
         UR. Alternatively, it is accepted that such systems are part of a security zone if these OT-
         systems meet the same requirements as demanded by the zone.

         It shall be possible to isolate a security zone without affecting the primary functionality of the
         CBSs in the zone, see also section 4.4.3.

         4.2.1.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.2.1.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Zones and conduit diagram and the Cyber security
         design description (see 5.1.1 and 5.1.2).

         The Zones and conduit diagram shall illustrate the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this
         UR, how they are grouped into security zones, and include the following information:

            -   Clear indication of the security zones




                                              Page 11 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


            -   Simplified illustration of each CBS in scope of applicability of this UR, and indication of
E26             the security zone in which the CBS is allocated, and indication of physical location of
(cont)          the CBS/equipment.

            -   Reference to the approved version of the CBS system topology diagrams provided by
                the suppliers (UR E27 section 3.1.2)

            -   Illustration of network communication between systems in a security zone

            -   Illustration of any network communication between systems in different security zones
                (conduits).

            -   Illustration of any communication between systems in a security zone and untrusted
                networks (conduits).

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   A short description of the CBSs allocated to the security zone. It shall be possible to
                identify each CBS in the Zones and conduit diagram.

            -   Network communication between CBSs in the same security zone. The description
                shall include purpose and characteristics (i.e. protocols and data flows) of the
                communication.

            -   Network communication between CBSs in different security zones. The description
                shall include purpose and characteristics (i.e. protocols and data flows) of the
                communication. The description shall also include zone boundary devices and specify
                the traffic that is permitted to traverse the zone boundary (e.g. firewall rules).

            -   Any communication between CBSs in security zones and untrusted networks. The
                description shall include discrete signals, serial communication, and the purpose and
                characteristics (i.e. protocols and data flows) of IP-based network communication.
                The description shall also include zone boundary devices and specify the traffic that is
                permitted to traverse the zone boundary (e.g. firewall rules).

         4.2.1.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall keep the Zones and conduit diagram updated.

         4.2.1.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society that:

            -    the security zones on board are implemented in accordance with the approved
                documents (i.e. zones and conduit diagram, cyber security design description, asset
                inventory, and relevant documents provided by the supplier). This may be done by
                e.g., inspection of the physical installation, network scanning and/or other methods
                providing the Surveyor assurance that the installed equipment is grouped in security
                zones according to the approved design.




                                            Page 12 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                         E26


            -   security zone boundaries allow only the traffic that has been documented in the
E26             approved Cyber security description. This may be done by e.g., evaluation of firewall
(cont)          rules or port scanning.

         4.2.1.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management of security zone boundary devices (e.g., firewalls), addressing at least the
         following requirements in this UR:

            -   Principle of Least Functionality (section 4.2.2.1)

            -   Explicitly allowed traffic (section 4.2.1.1)

            -   Protection against denial of service (DoS) events (section 4.2.2.1)

            -   Inspection of security audit records (section 4.3.1.3)

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society that the Zones and conduit diagram has
         been kept updated and present records or other documented evidence demonstrating
         implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that security zone
         boundaries are managed in accordance with the above requirements.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         Special survey

         The shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the activities in section 4.2.1.4.3 as per the
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.2.2 Network protection safeguards

         4.2.2.1 Requirement

         Security zones shall be protected by firewalls or equivalent means as specified in section
         4.2.1.

         The networks shall also be protected against the occurrence of excessive data flow rate and
         other events which could impair the quality of service of network resources.

         The CBSs in scope of this UR shall be implemented in accordance with the principle of Least
         Functionality, i.e. configured to provide only essential capabilities and to prohibit or restrict the
         use of non-essential functions, where unnecessary functions, ports, protocols and services
         are disabled or otherwise prohibited.




                                              Page 13 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26


         4.2.2.2 Rationale
E26
(cont)   Network protection covers a multitude of technologies, rules and configurations designed to
         protect the integrity, confidentiality and availability of networks. The threat environment is
         always changing, and attackers are always trying to find and exploit vulnerabilities.

         There are many layers to consider when addressing network protection. Attacks can happen
         at any layer in the network layers model, so network hardware, software and policies must be
         designed to address each area.

         While physical and technical security controls are designed to prevent unauthorized
         personnel from gaining physical access to network components and protect data stored on or
         in transit across the network, procedural security controls consist of security policies and
         processes that control user behaviour.

         4.2.2.3 Requirement details

         The design of network shall include means to meet the intended data flow through the
         network and minimize the risk of denial of service (DoS) and network storm/high rate of
         traffic. Estimation of data flow rate shall at least consider the capacity of network, data speed
         requirement for intended application and data format.

         4.2.2.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.2.2.4.1 Design phase

         No requirements.

         4.2.2.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.2.2.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate the following to the Society:

            -   Test denial of service (DoS) attacks targeting zone boundary protection devices, as
                applicable.

            -   Test denial of service (DoS) to ensure protection against excessive data flow rate,
                originating from inside each network segment. Such denial of service (DoS) tests shall
                cover flooding of network (i.e., attempt to consume the available capacity on the
                network segment), and application layer attack (i.e., attempt to consume the
                processing capacity of selected endpoints in the network)

            -   Test e.g. by analytic evaluation and port scanning that unnecessary functions, ports,
                protocols and services in the CBSs have been removed or prohibited in accordance
                with hardening guidelines provided by the suppliers. See UR E27 section 5.7 and
                6.3.4.7.

         The second and third tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as
         per section 5.2.1.



                                             Page 14 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26



E26      4.2.2.4.4 Operation phase
(cont)
         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         Special survey

         Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.2.2.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.2.3 Antivirus, antimalware, antispam and other protections from malicious code

         4.2.3.1 Requirement

         CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR shall be protected against malicious code such
         as viruses, worms, trojan horses, spyware, etc.

         4.2.3.2 Rationale

         A virus or any unwanted program that enters a user’s system without his/her knowledge can
         self-replicate and spread, perform unwanted and malicious actions that end up affecting the
         system’s performance, user’s data/files, and/or circumvent data security measures.

         Antivirus, antimalware, antispam software will act as a closed door with a security guard
         fending off the malicious intruding viruses performing a prophylactic function. It detects
         potential virus and then works to remove it, mostly before the virus gets to harm the system.

         Common means for malicious code to enter CBSs are electronic mail, electronic mail
         attachments, websites, removable media (for example, universal serial bus (USB) devices,
         diskettes or compact disks), PDF documents, web services, network connections and
         infected laptops.

         4.2.3.3 Requirement details

         Malware protection shall be implemented on CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR. On
         CBSs having an operating system for which industrial-standard anti-virus and anti-malware
         software is available and maintained up-to-date, anti-virus and/or anti-malware software shall
         be installed, maintained and regularly updated, unless the installation of such software
         impairs the ability of CBS to provide the functionality and level of service required (e.g. for
         Cat.II and Cat.III CBSs performing real-time tasks).

         On CBSs where anti-virus and anti-malware software cannot be installed, malware protection
         shall be implemented in the form of operational procedures, physical safeguards, or
         according to manufacturer’s recommendations.

         4.2.3.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.2.3.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   For each CBS, summary of the approved mechanisms provided by the supplier for
                protection against malicious code or unauthorized software.


                                            Page 15 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26



E26         -   For CBSs with anti-malware software, information about how to keep the software
(cont)          updated.

            -   Any operational conditions or necessary physical safeguards to be implemented in the
                shipowner’s management system.

         4.2.3.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall ensure that malware protection is kept updated during the
         construction phase.

         4.2.3.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate the following to the Society:

            -   Approved anti-malware software or other compensating countermeasures is effective
                (test e.g., with a trustworthy anti-malware test file).

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         4.2.3.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management of malware protection, addressing at least the following requirements in this
         UR:

            -   Maintenance/update (section 4.2.3.3)

            -   Operational procedures, physical safeguards (section 4.2.3.3)

            -   Use of mobile, portable, removable media (section 4.2.4.3.4 and 4.2.7.3)

            -   Access control (section 4.2.4)

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   Any anti-malware software has been maintained and updated.

            -   Procedures for use of portable, mobile or removable devices have been followed.

            -   Policies and procedures for access control have been followed.

            -   Physical safeguards are maintained.




                                            Page 16 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26



E26      Subsequent annual surveys
(cont)
         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         Special survey

         The shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the activities in section 4.2.3.4.3 as per the
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.2.4 Access control

         4.2.4.1 Requirement

         CBSs and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall provide physical and/or
         logical/digital measures to selectively limit the ability and means to communicate with or
         otherwise interact with the system itself, to use system resources to handle information, to
         gain knowledge of the information the system contains or to control system components and
         functions. Such measures shall be such as not to hamper the ability of authorized personnel
         to access CBS for their level of access according to the least privilege principle.

         4.2.4.2 Rationale

         Attackers may attempt to access the ship’s systems and data from either onboard the ship,
         within the company, or remotely through connectivity with the internet. Physical and logical
         access controls to cyber assets, networks etc. should then be implemented to ensure safety
         of the ship and its cargo.

         Physical threats and relevant countermeasures are also considered in the ISPS Code.
         Similarly, the ISM Code contains guidelines to ensure safe operation of ships and protection
         of the environment. Implementation of ISPS and ISM Codes may imply inclusion in the Ship
         Security Plan (SSP) and Safety Management System (SMS) of instructions and procedures
         for access control to safety critical assets.

         4.2.4.3 Requirement details

         Access to CBSs and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR and all information
         stored on such systems shall only be allowed to authorized personnel, based on their need to
         access the information as a part of their responsibilities or their intended functionality.

         4.2.4.3.1 Physical access control

         CBSs of Cat.II and Cat.III shall generally be located in rooms that can normally be locked or
         in controlled space to prevent unauthorized access, or shall be installed in lockable cabinets
         or consoles. Such locations or lockable cabinets/consoles shall be however easy to access to
         the crew and various stakeholders who need to access to CBSs for installation, integration,
         operation, maintenance, repair, replacement, disposal etc. so as not to hamper effective and
         efficient operation of the ship.




                                            Page 17 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


         4.2.4.3.2 Physical access control for visitors
E26
(cont)   Visitors such as authorities, technicians, agents, port and terminal officials, and shipowner
         representatives shall be restricted regarding access to CBSs onboard whilst on board, e.g. by
         allowing access under supervision.
         4.2.4.3.3 Physical access control of network access points

         Access points to onboard networks connecting Cat.II and/or Cat.III CBSs shall be physically
         and/or logically blocked except when connection occurs under supervision or according to
         documented procedures, e.g. for maintenance.

         Independent computers isolated from all onboard networks, or other networks, such as
         dedicated guest access networks, or networks dedicated to passenger recreational activities,
         shall be used in case of occasional connection requested by a visitor (e.g. for printing
         documents).

         4.2.4.3.4 Removable media controls

         A policy for the use of removable media devices shall be established, with procedures to
         check removable media for malware and/or validate legitimate software by digital signatures
         and watermarks and scan prior to permitting the uploading of files onto a ship’s system or
         downloading data from the ship’s system. See also 4.2.7.

         4.2.4.3.5 Management of credentials

         CBSs and relevant information shall be protected with file system, network, application, or
         database specific Access Control Lists (ACL). Accounts for onboard and onshore personnel
         shall be left active only for a limited period according to the role and responsibility of the
         account holder and shall be removed when no longer needed.

         Note: CBSs shall identify and authenticate human users as per item No.1 in Table 1 of UR
         E27. In other words, it is not necessary to “uniquely” identify and authenticate all human
         users

         Onboard CBSs shall be provided with appropriate access control that fits to the policy of their
         Security Zone but does not adversely affect their primary purpose. CBSs which require strong
         access control may need to be secured using a strong encryption key or multi-factor
         authentication.

         Administrator privileges shall be managed in accordance with the policy for access control,
         allowing only authorized and appropriately trained personnel full access to the CBS, who as
         part of their role in the company or onboard need to log on to systems using these privileges.

         4.2.4.3.6 Least privilege principle

         Any human user allowed to access CBS and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR
         shall have only the bare minimum privileges necessary to perform its function.

         The default configuration for all new account privileges shall be set as low as possible.
         Wherever possible, raised privileges shall be restricted only to moments when they are
         needed, e.g. using only expiring privileges and one-time-use credentials. Accumulation of
         privileges over time shall be avoided, e.g. by regular auditing of user accounts.




                                            Page 18 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         4.2.4.4 Demonstration of compliance
E26
(cont)   4.2.4.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   Location and physical access controls for the CBSs. Devices providing Human
                Machine Interface (HMI) for operators needing immediate access need not enforce
                user identification and authentication provided they are located in an area with
                physical access control. Such devices shall be specified.

         4.2.4.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall prevent unauthorised access to the CBSs during the
         construction phase.

         4.2.4.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate the following to the Society:

            -   Components of the CBSs are located in areas or enclosures where physical access
                can be controlled to authorised personnel.

            -   User accounts are configured according to the principles of segregation of duties and
                least privilege and that temporary accounts have been removed (may be omitted
                based on certification of CBSs as per section 5.2.1)

         4.2.4.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management of logical and physical access, addressing at least the following requirements in
         this UR:

            -   Physical access control (section 4.2.4.3.1)

            -   Physical access control for visitors (section 4.2.3.4.2)

            -   Physical access control of network access points (section 4.2.4.3.3)

            -   Management of credentials (section 4.2.4.3.5)

            -   Least privilege policy (section 4.2.4.3.6)

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management of confidential information, addressing at least the following requirements in this
         UR:

            -   Confidential information (section 4.1.1.3)

            -   Information allowed to authorized personnel (section 4.2.4.3)



                                            Page 19 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


            -   Information transmitted on the wireless network (section 4.2.5.3)
E26
(cont)   First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   Personnel are authorized to access the CBSs in accordance with their responsibilities.

            -   Only authorised devices are connected to the CBSs.

            -   Visitors are given access to the CBSs according to relevant policies and procedures.

            -   Physical access controls are maintained and applied.

            -   Credentials, keys, secrets, certificates, relevant CBS documentation, and other
                sensitive information is managed and kept confidential according to relevant policies
                and procedures.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         4.2.5 Wireless communication

         4.2.5.1 Requirement

         Wireless communication networks in the scope of this UR shall be designed, implemented
         and maintained to ensure that:

            -   Cyber incidents will not propagate to other control systems

            -   Only authorised human users will gain access to the wireless network

            -   Only authorised processes and devices will be allowed to communicate on the
                wireless network

            -   Information in transit on the wireless network cannot be manipulated or disclosed

         4.2.5.2 Rationale

         Wireless networks give rise to additional or different cybersecurity risks than wired networks.
         This is mainly due to less physical protection of the devices and the use of the radio
         frequency communication.

         Inadequate physical access control may lead to unauthorised personnel gaining access to the
         physical devices, which in turn could lead to circumventing logical access restrictions or
         deployment of rogue devices on the network.

         Signal transmission by radio frequency introduces risks related to jamming as well as
         eavesdropping which in turn could cater for attacks such as Piggybacking or Evil twin attacks
         (see https://us-cert.cisa.gov/ncas/tips/ST05-003).



                                            Page 20 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         4.2.5.3 Requirement details
E26
(cont)   Cryptographic mechanisms such as encryption algorithms and key lengths in accordance
         with industry standards and best practices shall be applied to ensure integrity and
         confidentiality of the information transmitted on the wireless network.

         Devices on the wireless network shall only communicate on the wireless network (i.e. they
         shall not be “dual-homed”)

         Wireless networks shall be designed as separate segments in accordance with 4.2.1 and
         protected as per 4.2.2.

         Wireless access points and other devices in the network shall be installed and configured
         such that access to the network can be controlled.

         The network device or system utilizing wireless communication shall provide the capability to
         identify and authenticate all users (humans, software processes or devices) engaged in that
         communication.

         4.2.5.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.2.5.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   Description of wireless networks in the scope of applicability of this UR and how these
                are implemented as separate security zones. The description shall include zone
                boundary devices and specify the traffic that is permitted to traverse the zone
                boundary (e.g. firewall rules)

         4.2.5.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall prevent unauthorised access to the wireless networks during the
         construction phase.

         4.2.5.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate the following to the Society:

            -   Only authorised devices can access the wireless network.

            -   Secure wireless communication protocol is used as per approved documentation by
                the respective supplier (demonstrate e.g. by use of a network protocol analyser tool).

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         4.2.5.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.




                                            Page 21 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         Special survey
E26
(cont)   Subject to modifications of the wireless networks in the scope of applicability of this UR, the
         shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the activities in section 4.2.5.4.3 as per the Ship
         cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.2.6 Remote access control and communication with untrusted networks

         4.2.6.1 Requirement

         CBSs in scope of this UR shall be protected against unauthorized access and other cyber
         threats from untrusted networks.

         4.2.6.2 Rationale

         Onboard CBSs have become increasingly digitalized and connected to the internet to perform
         a wide variety of legitimate functions. The use of digital systems to monitor and control
         onboard CBSs makes them vulnerable to cyber incidents. Attackers may attempt to access
         onboard CBSs through connectivity with the internet and may be able to make changes that
         affect a CBS’s operation or even achieve full control of the CBS, or attempt to download
         information from the ship’s CBS. In addition, since use of legacy IT and OT systems that are
         no longer supported and/or rely on obsolete operating systems affects cyber resilience,
         special care should be put to relevant hardware and software installations on board to help
         maintain a sufficient level of cyber resilience when such systems can be remotely accessed,
         also keeping in mind that not all cyber incidents are a result of a deliberate attack.

         4.2.6.3 Requirement details

         User’s manual shall be delivered for control of remote access to onboard IT and OT systems.
         Clear guidelines shall identify roles and permissions with functions.

         For CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR, no IP address shall be exposed to untrusted
         networks.

         Communication with or via untrusted networks requires secure connections (e.g. tunnels) with
         endpoint authentication, protection of integrity and authentication and encryption at network
         or transport layer. Confidentiality shall be ensured for information that is subject to read
         authorization.

         4.2.6.3.1 Design

         CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR shall:

            -   have the capability to terminate a connection from the onboard connection endpoint.
                Any remote access shall not be possible until explicitly accepted by a responsible role
                on board.

            -   be capable of managing interruptions during remote sessions so as not to
                compromise the safe functionality of OT systems or the integrity and availability of
                data used by OT systems.

            -   provide a logging function to record all remote access events and retain for a period of
                time sufficient for offline review of remote connections, e.g. after detection of a cyber
                incident.



                                             Page 22 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         4.2.6.3.2 Additional requirements for remote maintenance
E26
(cont)   When remote access is used for maintenance, the following requirements shall be complied
         with in addition to those in 4.2.6.3.1:

            -   Documentation shall be provided to show how they connect and integrate with the
                shore side.

            -   Security patches and software updates shall be tested and evaluated before they are
                installed to ensure they are effective and do not result in side effects or cyber events
                that cannot be tolerated. A confirmation report from the software supplier towards
                above shall be obtained, prior to undertaking remote update.

            -   Suppliers shall provide plans for- and make security updates available to the
                shipowner, see UR E27 section 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4.

            -   At any time, during remote maintenance activities, authorized personnel shall have
                the possibility to interrupt and abort the activity and roll back to a previous safe
                configuration of the CBS and systems involved.

            -   Multi-factor authentication is required for any access by human users to CBS’s in
                scope from an untrusted network.

            -   After a configurable number of failed remote access attempts, the next attempt shall
                be blocked for a predetermined length of time.

            -   If the connection to the remote maintenance location is disrupted for some reason,
                access to the system shall be terminated by an automatic logout function.

         4.2.6.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.2.6.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   Identification of each CBS in the scope of applicability of this UR that can be remotely
                accessed or that otherwise communicates through the security zone boundary with
                untrusted networks.

            -   For each CBS, a description of compliance with requirements in 4.2.6.3, as applicable

         4.2.6.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall ensure that any communication with untrusted networks is only
         temporarily enabled and used in accordance with the requirements of this section.

         4.2.6.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate the following to the Society:

            -   Communication with untrusted networks is secured in accordance with UR E27
                section 4.2 and that the communication protocols cannot be negotiated to a less
                secure version (demonstrate e.g., by use of a network protocol analyzer tool).


                                            Page 23 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                   E26



E26         -   Remote access requires multifactor authentication of the remote user.
(cont)
            -   A limit of unsuccessful login attempts is implemented, and that a notification message
                is provided for the remote user before session is established.

            -   Remote connections must be explicitly accepted by responsible personnel on board.

            -   Remote sessions can be manually terminated by personnel on board or that the
                session will automatically terminate after a period of inactivity.

            -   Remote sessions are logged (see UR E27 section 4.1 item 13).

            -   Instructions or procedures are provided by the respective product suppliers (see UR
                E27 section 3.1.3).

         4.2.6.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management of remote access and communication with/via untrusted networks, addressing
         at least the following requirements in this UR:

            -   User's manual (section 4.2.6.3)

            -   Roles and permissions (section 4.2.6.3)

            -   Patches and updates (section 4.2.6.3.2)

            -   Confirmation prior to undertaking remote software update (section 4.2.6.3.2)

            -   Interrupt, abort, roll back (section 4.2.6.3.2)

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   Remote access sessions have been recorded or logged and carried out as per
                relevant policies and user manuals.

            -   Installation of security patches and other software updates have been carried out in
                accordance with Management of change procedures and in cooperation with the
                supplier.

         Annual survey

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.




                                             Page 24 of 56                IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         Special survey
E26
(cont)   The shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the activities in section 4.2.6.4.3 as per the
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.2.7 Use of Mobile and Portable Devices

         4.2.7.1 Requirement

         The use of mobile and portable devices in CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR shall
         be limited to only necessary activities and be controlled in accordance with UR E27 section
         4.1 item 10. For any CBS that cannot fully meet these requirements, the interface ports shall
         be physically blocked.

         4.2.7.2 Rationale

         It is generally known that CBSs can be impaired due to malware infection via a mobile or a
         portable device. Therefore, connection of mobile and portable devices should be carefully
         considered. In addition, mobile equipment that is required to be used for the operation and
         maintenance of the ship should be under the control of the shipowner.

         4.2.7.3 Requirement details

         Mobile and portable devices shall only be used by authorised personnel. Only authorised
         devices may be connected to the CBSs. All use of such devices shall be in accordance with
         the shipowner's policy for use of mobile and portable devices, taking into account the risk of
         introducing malware in the CBS.

         4.2.7.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.2.7.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -    Any CBSs in the scope of applicability that do not meet the requirements in UR E27
                 section 4.1 item 10, i.e., that shall have protection of interface ports by physical
                 means such as port blockers.

         4.2.7.4.2 Construction phase

         The systems integrator shall ensure that use of physical interface ports in the CBSs is
         controlled in accordance with UR E27 section 4.1 item 10, and that any use of such devices
         follows procedures to prevent malware from being introduced in the CBS.

         4.2.7.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society that capabilities to control use of mobile and portable devices
         are implemented correctly, the following countermeasures shall be demonstrated as relevant:

                - Use of mobile and portable devices is restricted to authorised users

                - Interface ports can only be used by specific device types



                                            Page 25 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


                - Files cannot be transferred to the system from such devices
E26
(cont)          - Files on such devices will not be automatically executed (by disabling autorun)

                - Network access is limited to specific MAC or IP addresses

                - Unused interface ports are disabled

                - Unused interface ports are physically blocked

         4.2.7.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management of mobile and portable devices, addressing at least the following requirements
         in this UR:

            -    Policy and procedures (section 4.2.4.3.4)

            -    Physical block of interface ports (section 4.2.7.1)

            -    Use by authorized personnel (section 4.2.7.3)

            -    Connect only authorized devices (section 4.2.7.3)

            -    Consider risk of introducing malware (section 4.2.7.3)

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -    The use of mobile, portable or removable media is restricted to authorised personnel
                 and follows relevant policies and procedures.

            -    Only authorised devices are connected to the CBSs.

            -    Means to restrict use of physical interface ports are implemented as per approved
                 design documentation.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         Special survey

         The shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the activities in section 4.2.7.4.3 as per the
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure.




                                             Page 26 of 56                IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26



E26      4.3 Detect
(cont)
         The requirements for the Detect functional element are aimed at the development and
         implementation of appropriate means supporting the ability to reveal and recognize
         anomalous activity on CBSs and networks onboard and identify cyber incidents.

         4.3.1 Network operation monitoring

         4.3.1.1 Requirement

         Networks in scope of this UR shall be continuously monitored, and alarms shall be generated
         if malfunctions or reduced/degraded capacity occurs.

         4.3.1.2 Rationale

         Cyber-attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and attacks that target vulnerabilities
         that were unknown at the time of construction could result in incidents where the vessel is ill-
         prepared for the threat. To enable an early response to attacks targeting these types of
         unknown vulnerabilities, technology capable of detecting unusual events is required. A
         monitoring system that can detect anomalies in networks and that can use post-incident
         analysis provides the ability to appropriately respond and further recover from a cyber event.

         4.3.1.3 Requirement details

         Measures to monitor networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall have the following
         capabilities:

            -   Monitoring and protection against excessive traffic

            -   Monitoring of network connections

            -   Monitoring and recording of device management activities

            -   Protection against connection of unauthorized devices

            -   Generate alarm if utilization of the network’s bandwidth exceeds a threshold specified
                as abnormal by the supplier. See UR E22 section 7.2.1.

         Intrusion detection systems (IDS) may be implemented, subject to the following:

            -   The IDS shall be qualified by the supplier of the respective CBS

            -   The IDS shall be passive and not activate protection functions that may affect the
                performance of the CBS

            -   Relevant personnel should be trained and qualified for using the IDS

         4.3.1.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.3.1.4.1 Design phase

         No requirements.




                                             Page 27 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26


         4.3.1.4.2 Construction phase
E26
(cont)   No requirements.

         4.3.1.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall specify in the Ship cyber resilience test procedure and
         demonstrate to the Society the network monitoring and protection mechanisms in the CBSs.

            -   Test that disconnected network connections will activate alarm and that the event is
                recorded.

            -   Test that abnormally high network traffic is detected, and that alarm and audit record
                is generated. This test may be carried on together with the test in section 4.4.4.4.3.

            -   Demonstrate that the CBS will respond in a safe manner to network storm scenarios,
                considering both unicast and broadcast messages (see also 4.2.2.4.3)

            -   Demonstrate generation of audit records (logging of security-related events)

            -   If Intrusion detection systems are implemented, demonstrate that this is passive and
                will not activate protection functions that may affect intended operation of the CBSs.

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         Any Intrusion detection systems in the CBSs in scope of applicability to be implemented shall
         be subject to verification by the Society. Relevant documentation shall be submitted for
         approval, and survey/tests shall be carried out on board.

         4.3.1.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management activities to detect anomalies in the CBSs and networks, addressing at least the
         following requirements in this UR:

            -   Reveal and recognize anomalous activity (section 4.3)

            -   Inspection of security audit records (section 4.3.1.3)

            -   Instructions or procedures to detect incidents (section 4.4.1.1)

         The above activities may be addressed together with incident response in section 4.4.1.

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   The CBSs are routinely monitored for anomalies by inspection of security audit
                records and investigation of alerts in the CBSs.



                                            Page 28 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26


         Subsequent annual surveys
E26
(cont)   The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         Special survey

         Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.3.1.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.3.2 Verification and diagnostic functions of CBS and networks

         4.3.2.1 Requirement

         CBSs and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall be capable to check
         performance and functionality of security functions required by this UR. Diagnostic functions
         shall provide adequate information on CBSs integrity and status for the use of the intended
         user and means for maintaining their functionality for a safe operation of the ship.

         4.3.2.2 Rationale

         The ability to verify intended operation of the security functions is important to support
         management of cyber resilience in the lifetime of the ship. Tools for diagnostic functions may
         comprise automatic or manual functions such as self-diagnostics capabilities of each device,
         or tools for network monitoring (such as ping, traceroute, ipconfig, netstat, nslookup,
         Wireshark, nmap, etc.).

         It should be noted however that execution of diagnostic functions may sometimes impact the
         operational performance of the CBS.

         4.3.2.3 Requirement details

         CBSs and networks’ diagnostics functionality shall be available to verify the intended
         operation of all required security functions during test and maintenance phases of the ship.

         4.3.2.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.3.2.4.1 Design phase

         No requirements.

         4.3.2.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.3.2.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society the effectiveness of the procedures for verification of security
         functions provided by the suppliers.

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.



                                            Page 29 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26


         4.3.2.4.4 Operation phase
E26
(cont)   For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe the
         management activities to verify correct operation of the security functions in the CBSs and
         networks, addressing at least the following requirements in this UR:

            -   Test and maintenance periods (section 4.3.2.3)

            -   Periodic maintenance (section 5.3.3)

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   The security functions in the CBSs are periodically tested or verified.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         4.4 Respond
         The requirements for the Respond functional element are aimed at the development and
         implementation of appropriate means supporting the ability to minimize the impact of cyber
         incidents, containing the extension of possible impairment of CBSs and networks onboard.

         4.4.1 Incident response plan

         4.4.1.1 Requirement

         An incident response plan shall be developed by the shipowner covering relevant
         contingencies and specifying how to react to cyber security incidents. The Incident response
         plan shall contain documentation of a predetermined set of instructions or procedures to
         detect, respond to, and limit consequences of incidents against CBSs in the scope of
         applicability of this UR.

         4.4.1.2 Rationale

         An incident response plan is an instrument aimed to help responsible persons respond to
         cyber incidents. As such, the Incident response plan is as effective as it is simple and
         carefully designed. When developing the Incident response plan, it is important to understand
         the significance of any cyber incident and prioritize response actions accordingly.

         Means for maintaining as much as possible the functionality and a level of service for a safe
         operation of the ship, e.g. transfer active execution to a standby redundant unit, should also
         be indicated. Designated personnel ashore should be integrated with the ship in the event of
         a cyber incident.




                                            Page 30 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         4.4.1.3 Requirement details
E26
(cont)   The various stakeholders involved in the design and construction phases of the ship shall
         provide information to the shipowner for the preparation of the Incident Response Plan to be
         placed onboard at the first annual Survey. The Incident Response Plan shall be kept up-to-
         date (e.g. upon maintenance) during the operational life of the ship.

         The Incident response plan shall provide procedures to respond to detected cyber incidents
         on networks by notifying the proper authority, reporting needed evidence of the incidents and
         taking timely corrective actions, to limit the cyber incident impact to the network segment of
         origin.

         The incident response plan shall, as a minimum, include the following information:

            -   Breakpoints for the isolation of compromised systems;

            -   A description of alarms and indicators signalling detected ongoing cyber events or
                abnormal symptoms caused by cyber events;

            -   A description of expected major consequences related to cyber incidents;

            -   Response options, prioritizing those which do not rely on either shut down or transfer
                to independent or local control, if any.

            -   Independent and local control information for operating independently from the system
                that failed due to the cyber incident, as applicable;

         The Incident response plan shall be kept in hard copy in the event of complete loss of
         electronic devices enabling access to it.

         4.4.1.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.4.1.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   References to information provided by the suppliers (see UR E27 section 3.1.8) that
                may be applied by the shipowner to establish plans for incident response.

         4.4.1.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.4.1.4.3 Commissioning phase

         No requirements.

         4.4.1.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe incident
         response plans. The plans shall cover the CBSs in scope of applicability of this UR and shall
         address at least the following requirements in this UR:


                                            Page 31 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


            -   Description of who, when and how to respond to cyber incidents in accordance with
E26             requirements of section 4.4.1
(cont)
            -   Procedures or instructions for local/manual control in accordance with requirements in
                section 4.4.2

            -   Procedures or instructions for isolation of security zones in accordance with
                requirements in section 4.4.3

            -   Description of expected behaviour of the CBSs in the event of cyber incidents in
                accordance with requirements in section 4.4.4.

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   The incident response plans are available for the responsible personnel onboard.

            -   Procedures or instructions for local/manual controls are available for responsible
                personnel onboard.

            -   Procedures or instructions for disconnection/isolation of security zones are available
                for responsible personnel onboard.

            -   Any cyber incidents have been responded to in accordance with the incident response
                plans.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         4.4.2 Local, independent and/or manual operation

         4.4.2.1 Requirement

         Any CBS needed for local backup control as required by SOLAS II-1 Regulation 31 shall be
         independent of the primary control system. This includes also necessary Human Machine
         Interface (HMI) for effective local operation.

         4.4.2.2 Rationale

         Independent local controls of machinery and equipment needed to maintain safe operation is
         a fundamental principle for manned vessels. The objective of this requirement has
         traditionally been to ensure that personnel can cope with failures and other incidents by
         performing manual operations in close vicinity of the machinery. Since incidents caused by
         malicious cyber events should also be considered, this principle of independent local control
         is no less important.

         4.4.2.3 Requirement details

         The CBS for local control and monitoring shall be self-contained and not depend on
         communication with other CBS for its intended operation.


                                            Page 32 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26



E26      If communication to the remote control system or other CBS’s is arranged by networks,
(cont)   segmentation and protection safeguards as described in 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 shall be
         implemented. This implies that the local control and monitoring system shall be considered a
         separate security zone. Notwithstanding the above, special considerations can be given to
         CBSs with different concepts on case by case basis

         The CBS for local control and monitoring shall otherwise comply with requirements in this UR.

         4.4.2.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.4.2.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   Description of how the local controls specified in SOLAS II-1 Reg.31 are protected
                from cyber incidents in any connected remote or automatic control systems.

         4.4.2.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.4.2.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society that the required local controls in the scope of applicability of
         this UR needed for safety of the ship can be operated independently of any remote or
         automatic control systems. The tests shall be carried out by disconnecting all networks from
         the local control system to other systems/devices.

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         4.4.2.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         Special survey

         Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.4.2.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.4.3 Network isolation

         4.4.3.1 Requirement

         It shall be possible to terminate network-based communication to or from a security zone.

         4.4.3.2 Rationale

         In the event that a security breach has occurred and is detected, it is likely that the incident
         response plan includes actions to prevent further propagation and effects of the incident.
         Such actions could be to isolate network segments and control systems supporting essential
         functions.

                                             Page 33 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         4.4.3.3 Requirement details
E26
(cont)   Where the Incident Response Plan indicates network isolation as an action to be done, it
         shall be possible to isolate security zones according to the indicated procedure, e.g. by
         operating a physical ON/OFF switch on the network device or similar actions such as
         disconnecting a cable to the router/firewall. There shall be available instructions and clear
         marking on the device that allows the personnel to isolate the network in an efficient manner.

         Individual system’s data dependencies that may affect function and correct operation,
         including safety, shall be identified, clearly showing where systems must have compensations
         for data or functional inputs if isolated during a contingency.

         4.4.3.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.4.3.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   specification of how to isolate each security zone from other zones or networks. The
                effects of such isolation shall also be described, demonstrating that the CBSs in a
                security zone do not rely on data transmitted by IP-networks from other zones or
                networks.

         4.4.3.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.4.3.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society by disconnecting all networks traversing security zone
         boundaries, that the CBSs in the security zone will maintain adequate operational
         functionality without network communication with other security zones or networks.

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         4.4.3.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         Special survey

         Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.4.3.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.4.4 Fallback to a minimal risk condition

         4.4.4.1 Requirement

         In the event of a cyber incident impairing the ability of a CBS or network in the scope of
         applicability of this UR to provide its intended service, the affected system or network shall fall
         back to a minimal risk condition, i.e. bring itself in a stable, stopped condition to reduce the
         risk of possible safety issues.


                                             Page 34 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                         E26



E26      4.4.4.2 Rationale
(cont)
         The ability of a CBS and integrated systems to fallback to one or more minimal risk conditions
         to be reached in case of unexpected or unmanageable failures or events is a safety measure
         aimed to keep the system in a consistent, known and safe state.

         Fallback to a minimal risk condition usually implies the capability of a system to abort the
         current operation and signal the need for assistance, and may be different depending on the
         environmental conditions, the voyage phase of the ship (e.g. port depart/arrival vs. open sea
         passage) and the events occurred.

         4.4.4.3 Requirement details

         As soon as a cyber incident affecting the CBS or network is detected, compromising the
         system’s ability to provide the intended service as required, the system shall fall back to a
         condition in which a reasonably safe state can be achieved. Fall-back actions may include:

            -   bringing the system to a complete stop or other safe state;

            -   disengaging the system;

            -   transferring control to another system or human operator;

            -   other compensating actions.

         Fall-back to minimum risk conditions shall occur in a time frame adequate to keep the ship in
         a safe condition.

         The ability of a system to fall back to a minimal risk condition shall be considered from the
         design phase by the supplier and the systems integrator.

         4.4.4.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.4.4.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   Specification of safe state for the control functions in the CBSs in the scope of
                applicability of this UR.

         4.4.4.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.4.4.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society that CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR respond to
         cyber incidents in a safe manner (as per section 4.4.4.4.1), e.g. by maintaining its outputs to
         essential services and allowing operators to carry out control and monitoring functions by
         alternative means. The tests shall at least include denial of service (DoS) attacks and may be
         done together with related test in section 4.3.1.4.3.



                                             Page 35 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
E26      5.2.1.
(cont)
         4.4.4.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         Special survey

         Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.4.4.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.5 Recover
         The requirements for the Recover functional element are aimed at the development and
         implementation of appropriate means supporting the ability to restore CBSs and networks
         onboard affected by cyber incidents.

         4.5.1 Recovery plan

         4.5.1.1 Requirement

         A recovery plan shall be made by the shipowner to support restoring CBSs under the scope
         of applicability of this UR to an operational state after a disruption or failure caused by a cyber
         incident. Details of where assistance is available and by whom shall be part of the recovery
         plan.

         4.5.1.2 Rationale

         Incident response procedures are an essential part of system recovery. Responsible
         personnel should consider carefully and be aware of the implications of recovery actions
         (such as wiping of drives) and execute them carefully.

         It should be noted, however, that some recovery actions may result in the destruction of
         evidence that could provide valuable information on the causes of an incident.

         Where appropriate, external cyber incident response support should be obtained to assist in
         preservation of evidence whilst restoring operational capability.

         4.5.1.3 Requirement details

         The various stakeholders involved in the design and construction phases of the ship shall
         provide information to the shipowner for the preparation of the recovery plan to be placed
         onboard at the first annual Survey. The recovery plan shall be kept up-to-date (e.g. upon
         maintenance) during the operational life of the ship.

         Recovery plans shall be easily understandable by the crew and external personnel and
         include essential instructions and procedures to ensure the recovery of a failed system and
         how to get external assistance if the support from ashore is necessary. In addition, software
         recovery medium or tools essential for recovery on board shall be available.

         When developing recovery plans, the various systems and subsystems involved shall be
         specified. The following recovery objectives shall also be specified:



                                             Page 36 of 56                   IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                         E26


          (l)       System recovery: methods and procedures to recover communication capabilities shall
E26                 be specified in terms of Recovery Time Objective (RTO). This is defined as the time
(cont)
                    required to recover the required communication links and processing capabilities.

          (2) Data recovery: methods and procedures to recover data necessary to restore safe state
              of OT systems and safe ship operation shall be specified in terms of Recovery Point
              Objective (RPO). This is defined as the longest period of time for which an absence of
              data can be tolerated.

         Once the recovery objectives are defined, a list of potential cyber incidents shall be created,
         and the recovery procedure developed and described. Recovery plans shall include, or refer
         to the following information;

          (l)       Instructions and procedures for restoring the failed system without disrupting the
                    operation from the redundant, independent or local operation.

          (2) Processes and procedures for the backup and secure storage of information.

          (3) Complete and up-to-date logical network diagram.

          (4) The list of personnel responsible for restoring the failed system.

          (5) Communication procedure and list of personnel to contact for external technical support
              including system support vendors, network administrators, etc.

          (6) Current configuration information for all components.

         The operation and navigation of the ship shall be prioritized in the plan in order to help ensure
         the safety of onboard personnel.

         Recovery plans in hard copy onboard and ashore shall be available to personnel responsible
         for cyber security and who are tasked with assisting in cyber incidents.

         4.5.1.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.5.1.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

                -    references to information provided by the suppliers (see UR E27 section 3.1.8) that
                     may be applied by the shipowner to establish plans to recover from cyber incidents.

         4.5.1.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.5.1.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society the effectiveness of the procedures and instructions provided
         by the suppliers to respond to cyber incidents as specified in section 4.5.2 and 4.5.3.




                                                 Page 37 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26


         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
E26      5.2.1.
(cont)
         4.5.1.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         The shipowner shall in the Ship cyber security and resilience program describe incident
         recovery plans. The plans shall cover the CBSs in scope of applicability of this UR and shall
         address at least the following requirements in this UR:

            -   Description of who, when and how to restore and recover from cyber incidents in
                accordance with requirements in sections 4.5.1

            -   Policy for backup addressing frequency, maintenance and testing of the backups,
                considering acceptable downtime, availability of alternative means for control, vendor
                support arrangements and criticality of the CBSs in accordance with requirements in
                section 4.5.2.

            -   Reference to user manuals or procedures for backup, shutdown, reset, restore and
                restart of the CBSs in accordance with requirements in section 4.5.2 and 4.5.3.

         First annual survey

         The shipowner shall present to the Society records or other documented evidence
         demonstrating implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program, i.e., that:

            -   Instructions and/or procedures for incident recovery are available for the responsible
                personnel onboard.

            -   Equipment, tools, documentation, and/or necessary software and data needed for
                recovery is available for the responsible personnel onboard.

            -   Backup of the CBSs have been taken in accordance with the policies and procedures.

            -   Manuals and procedures for shutdown, reset, restore and restart are available for the
                responsible personnel onboard.

         Subsequent annual surveys

         The shipowner shall upon request by the Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship
         cyber security and resilience program by presenting records or other documented evidence
         as specified for the first annual survey.

         4.5.2 Backup and restore capability

         4.5.2.1 Requirement

         CBSs and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall have the capability to support
         back-up and restore in a timely, complete and safe manner. Backups shall be regularly
         maintained and tested.




                                            Page 38 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26


         4.5.2.2 Rationale
E26
(cont)   In general, the purpose of a backup and restore strategy should protect against data loss and
         reconstruct the database after data loss. Typically, backup administration tasks include the
         following: Planning and testing responses to different kinds of failures; Configuring the
         database environment for backup and recovery; Setting up a backup schedule; Monitoring
         the backup and recovery environment; Creating a database copy for long-term storage;
         Moving data from one database or one host to another, etc.

         4.5.2.3 Requirement details

         4.5.2.3.1 Restore capability

         CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR shall have backup and restore capabilities to
         enable the ship to safely regain navigational and operational state after a cyber incident.

         Data shall be restorable from a secure copy or image.

         Information and backup facilities shall be sufficient to recover from a cyber incident.

         4.5.2.3.2 Backup

         CBSs and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall provide backup for data. The
         use of offline backups shall also be considered to improve tolerance against ransomware and
         worms affecting online backup appliances.

         Backup plans shall be developed, including scope, mode and frequency, storage medium and
         retention period.

         4.5.2.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.5.2.4.1 Design phase

         No requirements.

         4.5.2.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.5.2.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society the procedures and instructions for backup and restore
         provided by the suppliers for CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR.

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         4.5.2.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.




                                             Page 39 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26


         Special survey
E26
(cont)   Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.5.2.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.

         4.5.3 Controlled shutdown, reset, roll-back and restart

         4.5.3.1 Requirement

         CBS and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall be capable of controlled
         shutdown, reset to an initial state, roll-back to a safe state and restart from a power-off
         condition in such state, in order to allow fast and safe recovery from a possible impairment
         due to a cyber incident.

         Suitable documentation on how to execute the above-mentioned operations shall be available
         to onboard personnel.

         4.5.3.2 Rationale

         Controlled shutdown consists in turning a CBS or network off by software function allowing
         other connected systems to commit/rollback pending transactions, terminating processes,
         closing connections, etc. leaving the entire integrated system in a safe and known state.
         Controlled shutdown is opposed to hard shutdown, which occurs for example when the
         computer is forcibly shut down by interruption of power.

         While in the case of some cyber incidents hard shutdowns may be considered as a safety
         precaution, controlled shutdown is preferable in case of integrated systems to keep them in a
         consistent and known state with predictable behaviour. When standard shutdown procedures
         are not done, data or program and operating system files corruption may occur. In case of OT
         systems, the result of corruption can be instability, incorrect functioning or failure to provide
         the intended service.

         The reset operation would typically kick off a soft boot, instructing the system to go through
         the process of shutting down, clear memory and reset devices to their initialized state.
         Depending on system considered, the reset operation might have different effects.

         Rollback is an operation which returns the system to some previous state. Rollbacks are
         important for data and system integrity, because they mean that the system data and
         programs can be restored to a clean copy even after erroneous operations are performed.
         They are crucial for recovering from crashes ad cyber incidents, restoring the system to a
         consistent state.

         Restarting a system and reloading a fresh image of all the software and data (e.g. after a
         rollback operation) from a read-only source appears to be an effective approach to recover
         from unexpected faults or cyber incidents. Restart operations should be however controlled in
         particular for integrated systems, where unexpected restart of a single component can result
         in inconsistent system state or unpredictable behaviour.

         4.5.3.3 Requirement details

         CBS and networks in the scope of applicability of this UR shall be capable of:

            -   controlled shutdown allowing other connected systems to commit/rollback pending
                transactions, terminating processes, closing connections, etc. leaving the entire
                integrated system in a safe, consistent and known state.


                                             Page 40 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                       E26



E26         -   resetting themselves, instructing the system to go through the process of shutting
(cont)          down, clear memory and reset devices to their initialized state.

            -   rolling back to a previous configuration and/or state, to restore system integrity and
                consistency.

            -   restarting and reloading a fresh image of all the software and data (e.g. after a
                rollback operation) from a read-only source. Restart time shall be compatible with the
                system’s intended service and shall not bring other connected systems, or the
                integrated system it is part of, to an inconsistent or unsafe state.

         Documentation shall be available to onboard personnel on how to execute the above-
         mentioned operations in case of a system affected by a cyber incident.

         4.5.3.4 Demonstration of compliance

         4.5.3.4.1 Design phase

         The systems integrator shall include the following information in the Cyber security design
         description:

            -   references to product manuals or procedures describing how to safely shut down,
                reset, restore and restart the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR.

         4.5.3.4.2 Construction phase

         No requirements.

         4.5.3.4.3 Commissioning phase

         The systems integrator shall submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure (ref. section 5.2.1)
         and demonstrate to the Society that manuals or procedures are established for shutdown,
         reset and restore of the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR. These
         manuals/procedures shall be provided to the shipowner.

         The above tests may be omitted if performed during the certification of CBSs as per section
         5.2.1.

         4.5.3.4.4 Operation phase

         For general requirements to surveys in the operation phase, see section 5.3.

         Special survey

         Subject to modifications of the CBSs, the shipowner shall demonstrate to the Society the
         activities in section 4.5.3.4.3 as per the Ship cyber resilience test procedure.




                                            Page 41 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                   E26



E26      5.       Demonstration of compliance
(cont)
         Evaluation of compliance with requirements in this UR shall be carried out by the Society by
         assessment of documentation and survey in the relevant phases as specified in the following
         subsections.

         Documentation to be submitted by suppliers to the Society is specified in UR E27. The
         approved versions of this documentation shall also be provided by the suppliers to the
         systems integrator as specified in UR E27 section 6.2

         Documents to be provided by the systems integrator are listed in section 5.1 and 5.2.

         Documents to be provided by the shipowner are listed in section 5.3.

         Upon delivery of the ship, the systems integrator shall provide below documentation to the
         shipowner:

              -   Documentation of the CBSs provided by the suppliers (see UR E27 section 6.2)

              -   Documentation produced by the systems integrator (see sections 5.1 and 5.2)

         See also appendix I and appendix II for a summary of the documents.

         5.1 During design and construction phases
         The supplier shall demonstrate compliance to the Society by following the certification
         process specified in UR E27 section 6.

         The systems integrator shall demonstrate compliance by submitting documents in the
         following subsections to the Society for assessment.

         During the design and construction phases, modifications to the design shall be carried out in
         accordance with the management of change (MoC) requirements in UR E22.

         5.1.1 Zones and conduit diagram

         The content of this document is specified in section 4.2.1.4.1.

         5.1.2 Cyber security design description (CSDD)

         The content of this document is specified in subsections “Design phase” for each requirement
         in section 4.

         5.1.3 Vessel asset inventory

         The content of this document is specified in section 4.1.1.

         5.1.4 Risk assessment for the exclusion of CBSs

         The content of this document is specified in section 6.




                                            Page 42 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                     E26


         5.1.5 Description of compensating countermeasures
E26
(cont)   If any CBS in the scope of applicability of this UR has been approved with compensating
         countermeasures in lieu of a requirement in UR E27, this document shall specify the
         respective CBS, the lacking security capability, as well as provide a detailed description of the
         compensating countermeasures. See also UR E27 section 3.1.3 requiring that the supplier
         describes such compensating countermeasures in the system documentation.

         5.2 Upon ship commissioning
         Before final commissioning of the ship, the systems integrator shall:

            1. Submit updated design documentation to the Society (as-built versions of the
                documents in section 5.1)

            2. Submit Ship cyber resilience test procedure to the Society describing how to
                demonstrate compliance with this UR by testing and/or analytic evaluation.

            3. Carry out testing, witnessed by the Society, in accordance with the approved Ship cyber
                resilience test procedure.

         5.2.1 Ship cyber resilience test procedure

         The content of this document is specified for the Commissioning phase in each subsection
         “Demonstration of compliance” in section 4.

         For each CBS, the required inherent security capabilities and configuration thereof are
         verified and tested in the certification process of each CBS (see UR E27). Testing of such
         security functions may be omitted if specified in the respective subsection "Commissioning
         phase", on the condition that these security functions have been successfully tested during
         the certification of the CBS as per UR E27. Nevertheless, all tests shall be included in the
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure and the decision to omit tests will be taken by the
         Society. Tests may generally not be omitted if findings/comments are carried over from the
         certification process to the commissioning phase, if the respective requirements have been
         met by compensating countermeasures, or due to other reasons such as modifications of the
         CBS after the certification process.

         The Ship cyber resilience test procedure shall also specify how to test any compensating
         countermeasures described in section 5.1.2.

         The Ship cyber resilience test procedure shall include means to update status and record
         findings during the testing, and specify the following information:

            -   Necessary test setup (i.e. to ensure the test can be repeated with the same expected
                result)

            -   Test equipment

            -   Initial condition(s)

            -   Test methodology, detailed test steps

            -   Expected results and acceptance criteria



                                            Page 43 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26


         Before submitting the Ship cyber resilience test procedure to the Society, the systems
E26      integrator shall verify that the information is updated and placed under change management;
(cont)   that it is aligned with the latest configurations of CBSs and networks connecting such
         systems together onboard the ship and to other CBSs not onboard (e.g., ashore); and that
         the tests documented are sufficiently detailed as to allow verification of the installation and
         operation of measures adopted for the fulfilment of relevant requirements on the final
         configuration of CBSs and networks onboard.

         The systems integrator shall document verification tests or assessments of security controls
         and measures in the fully integrated ship, maintaining change management for
         configurations, and noting in the documented test results where safety conditions may be
         affected by specific circumstances or failures addressed in the Ship cyber resilience test
         procedure.

         The testing shall be carried out on board in accordance with the approved Ship cyber
         resilience test procedure after other commissioning activities for the CBSs are completed.
         The Society may request execution of additional tests.

         5.3 During the operational life of the ship
         After the ship has been delivered to the shipowner, the shipowner shall manage technical and
         organisational security countermeasures by establishing and implementing processes as
         specified in this UR.

         Modifications to the CBSs in scope of applicability of this UR shall be carried out in
         accordance with the management of change (MoC) requirements in UR E22. This includes
         keeping documentation of the CBSs up to date.

         The shipowner, with the support of suppliers, shall keep the Ship cyber resilience test
         procedure up to date and aligned with the CBSs onboard the ship and the networks
         connecting such systems to each other and to other CBSs not onboard (e.g. ashore). The
         shipowner shall update the Ship cyber resilience test procedure considering the changes
         occurred on CBSs and networks onboard, possible emerging risks related to such changes,
         new threats, new vulnerabilities and other possible changes in the ship’s operational
         environment.

         The shipowner shall prepare and implement operational procedures, provide periodic training
         and carry out drills for the onboard personnel and other concerned personnel ashore to
         familiarize them with the CBSs onboard the ship and the networks connecting such systems
         to each other and to other CBSs not onboard (e.g. ashore), and to properly manage the
         measures adopted for the fulfilment of requirements.

         The shipowner, with the support of supplier, shall keep the measures adopted for the
         fulfilment of requirements up to date, e.g. by periodic maintenance of hardware and software
         of CBSs onboard the ship and the networks connecting such systems.

         The shipowner shall retain onboard a copy of results of execution of tests and an updated
         Ship cyber resilience test procedure and make them available to the Classification Society.

         5.3.1 First annual survey

         In due time before the first annual survey of the ship, the shipowner shall submit to the
         Society a Ship cyber security and resilience program documenting management of cyber
         security and cyber resilience of the CBSs in the scope of applicability of this UR.


                                            Page 44 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E26



E26      The Ship cyber security and resilience program shall include policies, procedures, plans
(cont)   and/or other information documenting the processes/activities specified in subsections
         “Demonstration of compliance” in section 4 of this UR.

         After the Society has approved the Ship cyber security and resilience program, the shipowner
         shall in the first annual survey demonstrate compliance by presenting records or other
         documented evidence of implementation ofthe processes described in the approved Ship
         cyber security and resilience program.

         Change of vessel management company will require a new verification of the Ship cyber
         security and resilience program.

         5.3.2 Subsequent annual surveys

         In the subsequent annual surveys of the ship, the shipowner shall upon request by the
         Society demonstrate implementation of the Ship cyber security and resilience program.

         5.3.3 Special survey

         Upon renewal of the ship’s classification certificate, the shipowner shall carry out testing
         witnessed by the Society in accordance with the Ship cyber resilience test procedure. Certain
         security safeguards shall be demonstrated at Special survey whereas other need only be
         carried out upon request by the Society based on modifications to the CBSs as specified in
         subsections “Operation phase” in section 4 of this UR.




                                           Page 45 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26



E26      6    Risk assessment for exclusion of CBS from the
(cont)   application of requirements
         6.1 Requirement
         A risk assessment shall be carried out in case any of the CBSs falling under the scope of
         applicability of this UR is excluded from the application of relevant requirements. The risk
         assessment shall provide evidence of the acceptable risk level associated to the excluded
         CBSs.

         6.2 Rationale
         Exclusion of a CBS falling under the scope of applicability of this UR from the application of
         relevant requirements needs to be duly justified and documented. Such exclusion can be
         accepted by the Classification Society only if evidence is given that the risk level associated
         to the operation of the CBS is under an acceptable threshold by means of specific risk
         assessment.

         The risk assessment shall be based on available knowledge bases and experience on similar
         designs, if any, considering the CBS category, connectivity and the functional requirements
         and specifications of the ship and of the CBS. Cyber threat information from internal and
         external sources may be used to gain a better understanding of the likelihood and impact of
         cybersecurity events.

         6.3 Requirement details
         Risk assessment shall be made and kept up to date by the System integrator during the
         design and building phase considering possible variations of the original design and newly
         discovered threats and/or vulnerabilities not known from the beginning.

         During the operational life of the ship, the shipowner shall update the risk assessment
         considering the constant changes in the cyber scenario and new weaknesses identified in
         CBS onboard in a process of continuous improvement. Should new risks be identified, the
         shipowner shall update existing, or implement new risk mitigation measures.

         Should the changes in the cyber scenario be such as to elevate the risk level associated to
         the CBS under examination above the acceptable risk threshold, the shipowner shall inform
         the Classification Society and submit the updated risk assessment for evaluation.

         The envisaged operational environments for the CBS under examination shall be analyzed in
         the risk assessment to discern the likelihood of cyber incidents and the impact they could
         have on the human safety, the safety of the vessel or the marine environment, taking into
         account the category of the CBS. The attack surface shall be analyzed, taking into account
         the connectivity of the CBS, possible interfaces for portable devices, logical access
         restrictions, etc.

         Emerging risks related to the specific configuration of the CBS under examination shall be
         also identified. In the risk assessment, the following elements shall be considered:

            -   Asset vulnerabilities;

            -   Threats, both internal and external;



                                             Page 46 of 56                 IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                      E26


            -    Potential impacts of cyber incidents affecting the asset on human safety, safety of the
E26              vessel and/or threat to the environment;
(cont)
            -    Possible effects related to integration of systems, or interfaces among systems,
                 including systems not onboard (e.g. if remote access to onboard systems is provided).

         6.4 Acceptance criteria
         Exclusion of a CBS falling under the scope of applicability of this UR from the application of
         relevant requirements can be accepted by the Classification Society only if assurance is
         given that the operation of the CBS has no impact on the safety of operations regarding cyber
         risk. The said exclusion may be accepted for a CBS which does not fully meet the additional
         criteria listed below but is provided with a rational explanation together with evidence and is
         found satisfactory by the Classification Society. The Classification Society may also require
         submittal of additional documents to consider the said exclusion.

         The following criteria shall be met to exclude a system from the scope of applicability of this
         UR:

                a) The CBS shall be isolated (i.e, have no IP-network connections to other systems or
                   networks)

                b) The CBS shall have no accessible physical interface ports. Unused interfaces shall
                   be logically disabled. It shall not be possible to connect unauthorised devices to the
                   CBS

                c) The CBS must be located in areas to which physical access is controlled

                d) The CBS shall not be an integrated control system serving multiple ship functions as
                   specified in the scope of applicability of this UR (see section 1.3)

         The following additional criteria should be considered for the evaluation of risk level
         acceptability:

            a) The CBS should not serve ship functions of category III ;

            b) Known vulnerabilities, threats, potential impacts deriving from a cyber incident
               affecting the CBS have been duly considered in the risk assessment;

            c) The attack surface for the CBS is minimized, having considered its complexity,
               connectivity, physical and logical access points, including wireless access points;




                                             Page 47 of 56                  IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                  E26



E26
(cont)   Appendix I – Summary of actions and documents
         Legend:

         Submit        The stakeholder shall submit the document to the Class society for verification and approval of compliance with requirements in this
                       UR
         Maintain      The stakeholder shall keep the document updated in accordance with procedure for management of change (MoC). Updated
                       document and change management records shall be submitted to the Class society as per UR E22.
         Demonstrate The stakeholder shall demonstrate compliance to the Class society in accordance with the approved document.

         1st AS        First annual survey
         AS            Annual survey
         SS            Special survey




                                                           Page 48 of 56                                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                                  E26



E26
(cont)
                                                                                    Systems integrator                                   Shipowner
         Document (E26)
                                                                          Design   Construction   Commissioning     Operation   1st AS         AS            SS

         Approved supplier documentation [5]                                           Maintain          Maintain   Maintain

         Zones and conduit diagram [5.1.1]                                Submit       Maintain          Maintain   Maintain

         Cyber security design description [5.1.2]                        Submit       Maintain          Maintain   Maintain

         Vessel asset inventory [5.1.3]                                   Submit       Maintain          Maintain   Maintain

         Risk assessment for the exclusion of CBSs [5.1.4] NOTE 1         Submit       Maintain          Maintain   Maintain

         Description of compensating countermeasures [5.1.5] NOTE 1       Submit       Maintain          Maintain   Maintain

         Ship cyber resilience test procedure [5.2.1]                                  Submit       Demonstrate     Maintain                             Demonstrate

         Ship cyber security and resilience program [5.3.1]                                                         Maintain    Submit     Demonstrate
             - Management of change (MoC) [4.1.1.4.4]
             - Management of software updates [4.1.1.4.4]
             - Management of firewalls [4.2.1.4.4]
             - Management of malware protection [4.2.3.4.4]
             - Management of access control [4.2.4.4.4]
             - Management of confidential information [4.2.4.4.4]
             - Management of remote access [4.2.6.4.4]
             - Management of mobile and portable devices [4.2.7.4.4]
             - Detection of security anomalies [4.3.1.4.4]
             - Verification of security functions [4.3.2.4.4]
             - Incident response plans [4.4.1.4.4]
             - Recovery plans [4.5.1.4.4]


         NOTE 1: If applicable




                                                                       Page 49 of 56                                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                  E26



E26
(cont)   Appendix II – Summary of requirements and documents

         Vessel asset inventory (section 4.1.1)
                                                      Provide documentation of product security updates                       E27 (5.2)
         CBS security capabilities                    Provide documentation of dependent component security updates           E27 (5.3)
                                                      Provide security updates                                                E27 (5.4)
                                                      CBS asset inventory                                                     E27 (3.1.1)
         CBS documentation
                                                      Management of change plan                                               E27 (3.1.9)
         Vessel design documentation                  Vessel asset inventory                                                  E26 (4.1.1.4.1)
                                                      Management of change                                                    E26 (4.1.1.4.4)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program
                                                      Management of software updates                                          E26 (4.1.1.4.4)


         Security zones and network segmentation (section 4.2.1)
         CBS security capabilities
         CBS documentation                          Topology diagrams                                                         E27 (3.1.2)
                                                    Zones and conduit diagram                                                 E26 (4.2.1.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation                Design description                                                        E26 (4.2.1.4.1)
                                                    Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                      E26 (4.2.1.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program Management of security zone boundary devices (e.g., firewalls)            E26 (4.2.1.4.4)


         Network protection safeguards (section 4.2.2)
                                                    Denial of service (DoS) protection (item 24)
         CBS security capabilities                                                                                            E27 (4.1)
                                                    Deterministic output (item 20)
                                                    Description of security capabilities                                      E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                    Test procedure for security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.4)
         Vessel design documentation                Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                      E26 (4.2.2.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program




                                                                Page 50 of 56                                         IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                  E26



E26
(cont)   Antivirus, antimalware, antispam and other protections from malicious code (section 4.2.3)
         CBS security capabilities                  Malicious code protection (#18)                           E27 (4.1)
                                                    Description of security capabilities                      E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                    Test procedure for security capabilities                  E27 (3.1.4)
                                                    Design description                                        E26 (4.2.3.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                    Ship cyber resilience test procedure                      E26 (4.2.3.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program Management of malware protection                          E26 (4.2.3.4.4)


         Access control (section 4.2.4)
                                                      Human user id. and auth. (#1)
                                                      Account management (#2)
         CBS security capabilities                    Identifier management (#3)                              E27 (4.1)
                                                      Authenticator management (#4)
                                                      Authorisation enforcement (#8)
                                                      Description of security capabilities                    E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                      Test procedure for security capabilities                E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Design description                                      E26 (4.2.4.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                    E26 (4.2.4.4.3)
                                                      Management of confidential information                  E26 (4.2.4.4.4)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program
                                                      Management of logical and physical access               E26 (4.2.4.4.4)


         Wireless communication (section 4.2.5)
                                                      Wireless access management (#5)
         CBS security capabilities                                                                            E27 (4.1)
                                                      Wireless use control (#9)
                                                      Description of security capabilities                    E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                      Test procedure for security capabilities                E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Design description                                      E26 (4.2.5.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                    E26 (4.2.5.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program




                                                                Page 51 of 56                         IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                              E26



E26
(cont)   Remote access control and communication with untrusted networks (section 4.2.6)
                                                    Multifactor authentication (#31)
                                                    Process / device id. and auth. (#32)
                                                    Unsuccessful login attempts (#33)
                                                    System use notification (#34)
                                                    Access via untrusted networks (#35)
         CBS security capabilities                  Explicit access request approval (#36)                                E27 (4.2)
                                                    Remote session termination (#37)
                                                    Cryptographic integrity protection (#38)
                                                    Input validation (#39)
                                                    Session integrity (#40)
                                                    Invalidation of session ID (#41)
                                                    Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                    Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                    Design description                                                    E26 (4.2.6.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                    Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.2.6.4.3)
                                                    Management of remote access and communication with/via untrusted
         Ship cyber security and resilience program                                                                       E26 (4.2.6.4.4)
                                                    networks


         Use of mobile and portable devices (section 4.2.7)
         CBS security capabilities                  Use control for portable devices (#10)                                E27 (4.1)
                                                    Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                    Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                    Design description                                                    E26 (4.2.7.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                    Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.2.7.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program Management of mobile and portable devices                             E26 (4.2.7.4.4)




                                                             Page 52 of 56                                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                E26



E26
(cont)   Network operation monitoring (section 4.3.1)
                                                   Use control for portable devices (#10)
                                                   Auditable events (#13)
         CBS security capabilities                                                                                          E27 (4.1)
                                                   Denial of service (DoS) protection (#24)

                                                      Alarm excessive bandwidth use                                         E22 (7.2.1)
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation
                                                      Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
         Vessel design documentation                  Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.3.1.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Incident response plans                                               E26 (4.3.1.4.4)


         Verification and diagnostic functions of CBS and networks (section 4.3.2)
         CBS security capabilities                  Security function verification (#19)                                    E27 (4.1)
                                                    Description of security capabilities                                    E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                          Test procedure for security capabilities                                E27 (3.1.4)
                                                    Plans for maintenance and verification                                  E27 (3.1.7)
         Vessel design documentation                Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                    E26 (4.3.2.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program Verification of security functions                                      E26 (4.3.2.4.4)


         Incident response plan (section 4.4.1)
         CBS security capabilities
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
                                                      Design description                                                    E26 (4.4.1.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.4.1.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Incident response plans                                               E26 (4.4.1.4.4)




                                                                Page 53 of 56                                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                E26



E26
(cont)   Local, independent and/or manual operation (section 4.4.2)

         CBS security capabilities
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
                                                      Design description                                                    E26 (4.4.2.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.4.2.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Incident response plans                                               E26 (4.4.1.4.4)


         Network isolation (section 4.4.3)

         CBS security capabilities
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
                                                      Design description                                                    E26 (4.4.3.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.4.3.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Incident response plans                                               E26 (4.4.1.4.4)


         Fallback to a minimal risk condition (section 4.4.4)

         CBS security capabilities                    Deterministic output (#20)                                            E27 (4.1)
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
                                                      Design description                                                    E26 (4.4.4.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.4.4.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Incident response plans                                               E26 (4.4.1.4.4)




                                                                Page 54 of 56                                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                E26



E26
(cont)   Recovery plan (section 4.5.1)

         CBS security capabilities
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
                                                      Design description                                                    E26 (4.5.1.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.5.1.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Recovery plans                                                        E26 (4.5.1.4.4)


         Backup and restore capability (section 4.5.2)

                                                      System backup (#26)
         CBS security capabilities                                                                                          E27 (4.1)
                                                      System recovery and reconstitution (#27)
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
         Vessel design documentation                  Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.5.2.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Recovery plan                                                         E26 (4.5.1.4.4)



         Controlled shutdown, reset, restore and restart (section 4.5.3)

         CBS security capabilities                    System recovery and reconstitution (#27)                              E27 (4.1)
                                                      Description of security capabilities                                  E27 (3.1.3)
         CBS documentation                            Test procedure for security capabilities                              E27 (3.1.4)
                                                      Information supporting incident response and recovery plans           E27 (3.1.8)
                                                      Design description                                                    E26 (4.5.3.4.1)
         Vessel design documentation
                                                      Ship cyber resilience test procedure                                  E26 (4.5.3.4.3)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program   Recovery plans                                                        E26 (4.5.1.4.4)




                                                                Page 55 of 56                                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                   E26



E26
(cont)   Risk assessment for exclusion of CBS from the application of requirements (section 6)

         CBS security capabilities
         CBS documentation
         Vessel design documentation                  Risk assessment for the exclusion of CBSs           E26 (5.1.4)
         Ship cyber security and resilience program




                                                                                                                        End of
                                                                                                                        document




                                                               Page 56 of 56                      IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                   E27



E27        Cyber resilience of on-board systems and
Withdrawn) equipment
(Apr 2022
(cont)

(Rev.1
Sep 2023)
            1.      General

            1.1     Introduction

            Technological evolution of vessels, ports, container terminals, etc. and increased reliance
            upon Operational Technology (OT) and Information Technology (IT) has created an
            increased possibility of cyber-attacks to affect business, personnel data, human safety, the
            safety of the ship, and also possibly threaten the marine environment. Safeguarding shipping
            from current and emerging threats must involve a range of controls that are continually
            evolving which would require incorporating security features in the equipment and systems at
            design and manufacturing stage. It is therefore necessary to establish a common set of
            minimum requirements to deliver systems and equipment that can be described as cyber
            resilient.

            This document specifies unified requirements for cyber resilience of on-board systems and
            equipment.

            1.2     Limitations

            This UR does not cover environmental performance for the system hardware and the
            functionality of the software. In addition to this UR, following URs shall be applied:

                 - UR E10 for environmental performance for the system hardware

                 - UR E22 for safety of equipment for the functionality of the software




            Note:
             1.     The Unified Requirement published in April 2022 was withdrawn before coming into
                    force on 1 January 2024

             2.     Rev.1 to this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted
                    for construction on or after 1 July 2024 and may be used for other ships as non-
                    mandatory guidance.
             3.     The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                    vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                    regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                    (PR) No. 29.




                                           Page 1 of 20                      IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                E27


         1.3   Scope of applicability
E27
(cont)   The requirements specified in this UR are applicable to computer based systems specified in
         UR E26 for the following types of vessels:

         Mandatory requirements for

         a) Passenger ships (including passenger high-speed craft) engaged in international voyages
         b) Cargo ships of 500 GT and upwards engaged in international voyages
         c) High speed craft of 500 GT and upwards engaged in international voyage
         d) Mobile offshore drilling units of 500 GT and upwards
         e) Self-propelled mobile offshore units engaged in construction (ie wind turbine installation
            maintenance and repair, crane units, drilling tenders, accommodation, etc)

         Non-mandatory guidance to

         a) Ships of war and troopships
         b) Cargo ships less than 500 gross tonnage
         c) Vessels not propelled by mechanical means
         d) Wooden ships of primitive build
         e) Passenger yachts (passengers not more than 12).
         f) Pleasure yachts not engaged in trade
         g) Fishing vessels
         h) Site specific offshore installations (i.e. FPSOs, FSUs, etc)

         For navigation and radiocommunication systems, the application of IEC 61162-460 or other
         equivalent standards in lieu of the required security capabilities in UR E27 section 4 may be
         accepted by the Society, on the condition that requirements in IACS UR E26 are complied
         with.


         1.3.1 Information and Communication Technology (ICT)

         Attention is made to additional IACS documents on Computer Based Systems and Cyber
         Resilience as follows:

         IACS UR E22 “Computer based systems” includes requirements for design, construction,
         commissioning and maintenance of computer-based systems where they depend on software
         for the proper achievement of their functions. The requirements in E22 focus on the
         functionality of the software and on the hardware supporting the software which provide
         control, alarm, monitoring, safety or internal communication functions subject to classification
         requirements.

         IACS UR E26 “Cyber resilience of Ships” includes requirements for cyber resilience of ships,
         with the purpose of providing technical means to stakeholders which would lead to cyber
         resilient ships.

         IACS Recommendation 166 on Cyber Resilience: non-mandatory recommended technical
         requirements that stakeholders may reference and apply to assist with the delivery of cyber
         resilient ships, whose resilience can be maintained throughout their service life.




                                       Page 2 of 20                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                E27


         1.4   Definitions & Abbreviations
E27
(cont)   Attack surface: The set of all possible points where an unauthorized user can access a
         system, cause an effect on or extract data from. The attack surface comprises two categories:
         digital and physical. The digital attack surface encompasses all the hardware and software
         that connect to an organization’s network. These include applications, code, ports, servers and
         websites. The physical attack surface comprises all endpoint devices that an attacker can gain
         physical access to, such as desktop computers, hard drives, laptops, mobile phones,
         removable drives and carelessly discarded hardware.

         Authentication: Provision of assurance that a claimed characteristic of an identity is correct.

         Compensating countermeasure: An alternate solution to a countermeasure employed in
         lieu of or in addition to inherent security capabilities to satisfy one or more security
         requirements.

         Computer Based System (CBS): A programmable electronic device, or interoperable set of
         programmable electronic devices, organized to achieve one or more specified purposes such
         as collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of
         information. CBS on-board include IT and OT systems. A CBS may be a combination of
         subsystems connected via network. On-board CBS may be connected directly or via public
         means of communications (e.g. Internet) to ashore CBSs, other vessels’ CBS and/or other
         facilities.

         Computer Network: A connection between two or more computers for the purpose of
         communicating data electronically by means of agreed communication protocols.

         Control: Means of managing risk, including policies, procedures, guidelines, practices or
         organizational structures, which can be administrative, technical, management, or legal in
         nature.

         Cyber incident: An event resulting from any offensive cyber manoeuvre, either intentional or
         unintentional, that targets or affects one or more CBS onboard, which actually or potentially
         results in adverse consequences to an onboard system, network and computer or the
         information that they process, store or transmit, and which may require a response action to
         mitigate the consequences. Cyber incidents include unauthorized access, misuse,
         modification, destruction or improper disclosure of the information generated, archived or
         used in onboard CBS or transported in the networks connecting such systems. Cyber
         incidents do not include system failures.

         Cyber resilience: The capability to reduce the occurrence and mitigating the effects of
         incidents arising from the disruption or impairment of operational technology (OT) used for the
         safe operation of a ship, which potentially lead to dangerous situations for human safety,
         safety of the vessel and/or threat to the environment.

         Defence in depth: Information Security strategy integrating people, technology, and
         operations capabilities to establish variable barriers across multiple layers and missions of
         the organization.

         Essential Systems: Computer Based System contributing to the provision of services
         essential for propulsion and steering, and safety of the ship. Essential services comprise
         "Primary Essential Services" and "Secondary Essential Services": Primary Essential Services
         are those services which need to be in continuous operation to maintain propulsion and
         steering; Secondary Essential Services are those services which need not necessarily be in


                                      Page 3 of 20                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                               E27


         continuous operation to maintain propulsion and steering but which are necessary for
E27      maintaining the vessel’s safety.
(cont)
         Firewall: A logical or physical barrier that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing
         network traffic controlled via predefined rules.

         Firmware: Software embedded in electronic devices that provide control, monitoring and data
         manipulation of engineered products and systems. These are normally self-contained and not
         accessible to user manipulation.
         Hardening: Hardening is the practice of reducing a system's vulnerability by reducing its
         attack surface.

         Information Technology (IT): Devices, software and associated networking focusing on
         the use of data as information, as opposed to Operational Technology (OT).

         Integrated system: A system combining a number of interacting sub-systems and/or
         equipment organized to achieve one or more specified purposes.

         Network switch (Switch): A device that connects devices together on a computer network,
         by using packet switching to receive, process and forward data to the destination device.

         Offensive cyber manoeuvre: Actions that result in denial, degradation, disruption,
         destruction, or manipulation of OT or IT systems.

         Operational technology (OT): Devices, sensors, software and associated networking that
         monitor and control onboard systems. Operational technology systems may be thought of as
         focusing on the use of data to control or monitor physical processes.

         OT system: Computer based systems, which provide control, alarm, monitoring, safety
         or internal communication functions.

         Patches: Software designed to update installed software or supporting data to address
         security vulnerabilities and other bugs or improve operating systems or applications

         Protocols: A common set of rules and signals that computers on the network use to
         communicate. Protocols allow to perform data communication, network management and
         security. Onboard networks usually implement protocols based on TCP/IP stacks or various
         field buses.

         Recovery: Develop and implement the appropriate activities to maintain plans for resilience
         and to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a cyber security event.
         The Recovery function support s timely return to normal operations to reduce the impact
         from a cyber security event.

         Supplier: A manufacturer or provider of hardware and/or software products, system
         components or equipment (hardware or software) comprising of the application, embedded
         devices, network devices, host devices etc. working together as system or a subsystem. The
         Supplier is responsible for providing programmable devices, sub-systems or systems to the
         System Integrator.

         System: Combination of interacting programmable devices and/or sub-systems organized to
         achieve one or more specified purposes.
         System Categories (I, II, III): System categories based on their effects on system
         functionality, which are defined in IACS UR E22.


                                      Page 4 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E27



E27      System Integrator: The specific person or organization responsible for the integration of
(cont)   systems and products provided by suppliers into the system invoked by the requirements in
         the ship specifications and for providing the integrated system. The system integrator may
         also be responsible for integration of systems in the ship. Until vessel delivery, this role shall
         be taken by the Shipyard unless an alternative organization is specifically
         contracted/assigned this responsibility.

         Untrusted network: Any network outside the scope of applicability of this UR.


         2.    Security Philosophy

         2.1   Systems and Equipment

         2.1.1 A System can consist of group of hardware and software enabling safe, secure and
         reliable operation of a process. Typical example could be Engine control system, DP system,
         etc.

         2.1.2 Equipment may be one of the following:
            - Network devices (i.e. routers, managed switches)
            - Security devices (i.e. firewall, Intrusion Detection System)
            - Computers (i.e. workstation, servers)
            - Automation devices (i.e. Programmable Logic Controllers)
            - Virtual machine cloud-hosted

         2.2   Cyber Resilience

         The cyber resilience requirements in section 4 will be applicable for all systems in scope of
         UR E26 as applicable. Additional requirements related to interface with untrusted networks
         will only apply for systems where such connectivity is designed.

         2.3   Essential Systems Availability

         2.3.1 Security measures for Essential system shall not adversely affect the systems
         availability.

         2.3.2 Implementation of security measures shall not cause loss of safety functions , loss of
         control functions, loss of monitoring functions or loss of other functions which could result in
         health, safety and environmental consequences.

         2.3.3 The system shall be adequately designed to allow the ship to continue its mission
         critical operations in a manner that ensures the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the
         data necessary for safety of the vessel, its systems, personnel and cargo.


         2.4   Compensating Countermeasures

         2.4.1 Compensating countermeasure may be employed in lieu of or in addition to inherent
         security capabilities to satisfy one or more security requirements.

         Compensating countermeasure(s) shall meet the intent and rigor of the original stated
         requirement considering the referenced standards as well as the differences between each


                                        Page 5 of 20                         IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                 E27


         requirement and the related items in the standards, and follow the principles specified in
E27      section 3.1.3.
(cont)

         3.      Documentation

         3.1     CBS Documentation

         The following documents shall be submitted to Classification society for review and approval
         in accordance with the requirements in this UR. See also section 6.2.

         3.1.1 CBS asset inventory

         The CBS asset inventory shall include the information below.

               - List of hardware components (e.g., host devices, embedded devices, network
                 devices)Name
               - Brand/manufacturer
               - Model/type
               - Short description of functionality/purpose
               - Physical interfaces (e.g., network, serial)
               - Name/type of system software (e.g., operating system, firmware)
               - Version and patch level of system software
               - Supported communication protocols

         List of software components (e.g., application software, utility software)

               - The hardware component where it is installed
               - Brand/manufacturer
               - Model/type
               - Short description of functionality/purpose
               - Version of software

         3.1.2 Topology diagrams

         The physical topology diagram shall illustrate the physical architecture of the system. It shall
         be possible to identify the hardware components in the CBS asset inventory. The diagram
         shall illustrate the following:

               - All endpoints and network devices, including identification of redundant units
               - Communication cables (networks, serial links), including communication with I/O units
               - Communication cables to other networks or systems

         The logical topology diagram shall illustrate the data flow between components in the system.
         The diagram shall illustrate the following:

               - Communication endpoints (e.g. workstations, controllers, servers)
               - Network devices (switches, routers, firewalls)
               - Physical and virtual computers
               - Physical and virtual communication paths
               - Communication protocols


                                        Page 6 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                 E27


         One combined topology diagram may be acceptable if all requested information can be
E27      clearly illustrated.
(cont)
         3.1.3 Description of security capabilities

         This document shall describe how the CBS with its hardware and software components
         meets the required security capabilities in section 4.1.

         Any network interfaces to other CBSs in the scope of applicability of UR E26 shall be
         described. The description shall include destination CBS, data flows, and communication
         protocols. If the System integrator has allocated the destination CBS to another security
         zone, components providing protection of the security zone boundary (see UR E26 section
         4.2.2.1) shall be described in detail if delivered as part of the CBS.

         Any network interfaces to other systems or networks outside the scope of applicability of UR
         E26 (untrusted networks) shall be described. The description shall specify compliance with
         the additional security capabilities in section 4.2, and include relevant procedures or
         instructions for the crew. Components providing protection of the security zone boundary (see
         UR E26 section 4.2.2.1) shall be described in detail if delivered as part of the CBS.

         A separate chapter shall be designated for each requirement. All hardware and software
         components in the system shall be addressed in the description, as relevant.

         If any requirement is not fully met, this shall be specified in the description, and compensating
         countermeasures shall be proposed. The compensating countermeasures should:

               -   Protect against the same threats as the original requirement
               -   Provide an equal level of protection as the original requirement
               -   Not be a security control that is required by other requirements in this UR
               -   Not introduce higher security risk

         Any supporting documents (e.g. OEM information) necessary to verify compliance with the
         requirements shall be referenced in the description and submitted.

         3.1.4 Test procedure of security capabilities

         This document shall describe how to demonstrate by testing that the system complies with
         the requirements in section 4.1 and 4.2, including any compensating countermeasures.
         Demonstration of compliance by analytic evaluation may be specially considered. The
         procedure shall include a separate chapter for each applicable requirement and describe:

               -   Necessary test setup (i.e. to ensure the test can be repeated with the same
                   expected result)
               -   Test equipment
               -   Initial condition(s)
               -   Test methodology, detailed test steps
               -   Expected results and acceptance criteria

         The procedure shall also include means to update test results and record findings during the
         testing.




                                       Page 7 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                E27


         3.1.5 Security configuration guidelines
E27
(cont)   This document shall describe recommended configuration settings of the security capabilities
         and specify default values. The objective is to ensure the security capabilities are
         implemented in accordance with UR E26 and any specifications by the System integrator
         (e.g. user accounts, authorisation, password policies, safe state of machinery, firewall rules,
         etc.)

         The document shall serve as basis for verification of item no. 29 in section 4.1.

         3.1.6 Secure development lifecycle documents

         This documentation shall be submitted to the Society upon request and shall describe the
         supplier's processes and controls in accordance with requirements for secure development
         lifecycle in section 5. Software updates and patching shall be described. The document shall
         prepare the Society for survey as per section 6.3.4.

         3.1.7 Plans for maintenance and verification of the CBS

         This document shall be submitted to the Society upon request and shall include procedures
         for security-related maintenance and testing of the system. The document shall include
         instructions for how the user can verify correct operation of the system's security functions as
         required by item no.19 in section 4.1.

         3.1.8 Information supporting the owner’s incident response and recovery plan

         This document shall be submitted to the Society upon request and shall include procedures
         or instructions allowing the user to accomplish the following:

               -   Local independent control (see UR E26 sec. 4.4.2)
               -   Network isolation (see UR E26 sec. 4.4.3)
               -   Forensics by use of audit records (see UR E27 sec. 4.1 item no.13)
               -   Deterministic output (see UR E26 sec. 4.4.4 and UR E27 sec. 4.1 item no. 20)
               -   Backup (see UR E27 sec. 4.1 item no. 26)
               -   Restore (see UR E27 sec. 4.1 item no. 27)
               -   Controlled shutdown, reset, roll-back and restart (see UR E26 sec. 4.5.3)

         3.1.9 Management of change plan

         This document shall be submitted to the Society upon request. It is expected that this
         procedure is not specific for cyber security and is also required by UR E22.

         3.1.10 Test reports

         CBSs with Type approval certificate covering the security capabilities of this UR may be
         exempted from survey by the Society. However, test reports signed by the supplier shall be
         submitted to the Society, demonstrating that the supplier has completed design, construction,
         testing, configuration, and hardening as would otherwise be verified by the Society in survey
         (section 6.3).




                                      Page 8 of 20                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                 E27


         4     System Requirements
E27
(cont)   This section specifies the required security capabilities for CBSs in the scope specified in
         section 1.3.

         The requirements in this section are based on the selected requirements in IEC 62443-3-3.
         To determine the full content, rationale and relevant guidance for each requirement, the
         reader should consult the referenced standard.

         4.1   Required security capabilities

         The following security capabilities are required for all CBSs in the scope specified in section
         1.3.
                                                      Table 1

         ltem     Objective             Requirements
         No
         Protect against casual or coincidental access by unauthenticated entities
         1        Human user            The CBS shall identify and authenticate all human users who
                  identification and    can access the system directly or through interfaces
                  authentication        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.1)
                                        The CBS shall provide the capability to support the
         2        Account               management of all accounts by authorized users, including
                  management            adding, activating, modifying, disabling and removing account
                                        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.3)
         3        Identifier            The CBS shall provide the capability to support the
                  management            management of identifiers by user, group and role.
                                        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.4)
         4        Authenticator         The CBS shall provide the capability to:
                  management              - Initialize authenticator content
                                          - Change all default authenticators upon control system
                                             installation
                                          - Change/refresh all authenticators
                                          - Protect all authenticators from unauthorized disclosure
                                             and modification when stored and transmitted.
                                        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.5)
         5        Wireless access       The CBS shall provide the capability to identify and
                  management            authenticate all users (humans, software processes or
                                        devices) engaged in wireless communication
                                        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.6)
         6        Strength of           The CBS shall provide the capability to enforce configurable
                  password-based        password strength based on minimum length and variety of
                  authentication        character types.
                                        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.7)
         7        Authenticator         The CBS shall obscure feedback during the authentication
                  feedback              process.
                                        (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.10)
         Protect against casual or coincidental misuse
         8        Authorization          On all interfaces, human users shall be assigned
                  enforcement            authorizations in accordance with the principles of
                                         segregation of duties and least privilege.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.1)


                                       Page 9 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                 E27


         9        Wireless use           The CBS shall provide the capability to authorize, monitor
E27               control                and enforce usage restrictions for wireless connectivity to the
(cont)                                   system according to commonly accepted security industry
                                         practices
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.2)
         10       Use control for        When the CBS supports use of portable and mobile devices,
                  portable and           the system shall include the capability to
                  mobile devices          a) Limit the use of portable and mobile devices only to those
                                             permitted by design
                                          b) Restrict code and data transfer to/from portable and
                                             mobile devices
                                         Note: Port limits / blockers (and silicone) could be accepted
                                         for a specific system
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.3)
         11       Mobile code            The CBS shall control the use of mobile code such as java
                                         scripts, ActiveX and PDF.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.4)
         12       Session lock           The CBS shall be able to prevent further access after a
                                         configurable time of inactivity or following activation of manual
                                         session lock.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.5)
         13       Auditable events       The CBS shall generate audit records relevant to security for
                                         at least the following events: access control, operating
                                         system events, backup and restore events, configuration
                                         changes, loss of communication.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.8)
         14       Audit storage          The CBS shall provide the capability to allocate audit record
                  capacity               storage capacity according to commonly recognized
                                         recommendations for log management. Auditing mechanisms
                                         shall be implemented to reduce the likelihood of such
                                         capacity being exceeded.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.9)
         15       Response to audit      The CBS shall provide the capability to prevent loss of
                  processing failures essential services and functions in the event of an audit
                                         processing failure.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.10)
         16       Timestamps             The CBS shall timestamp audit records.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.11)
         Protect the integrity of the CBS against casual or coincidental manipulation
         17       Communication          The CBS shall protect the integrity of transmitted information.
                  integrity              Note: Cryptographic mechanisms shall be employed for
                                         wireless networks.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.1)
         18       Malicious code         The CBS shall provide capability to implement suitable
                  protection             protection measures to prevent, detect and mitigate the
                                         effects due to malicious code or unauthorized software. It
                                         shall have the feature for updating the protection mechanisms
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.2)
         19       Security               The CBS shall provide the capability to support verification of
                  functionality          the intended operation of security functions and report when
                  verification           anomalies occur during maintenance
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.3)



                                      Page 10 of 20                         IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                               E27


         20      Deterministic         The CBS shall provide the capability to set outputs to a
E27              output                predetermined state if normal operation cannot be maintained
(cont)                                 as a result of an attack. The predetermined state could be:
                                           - Unpowered state,
                                           - Last-known value, or
                                           - Fixed value
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.6)
         Prevent the unauthorized disclosure of information via eavesdropping or casual exposure
         21      Information           The CBS shall provide the capability to protect the
                 confidentiality       confidentiality of information for which explicit read
                                       authorization is supported, whether at rest or in transit.
                                       Note: For wireless network, cryptographic mechanisms shall
                                       be employed to protect confidentiality of all information in
                                       transit.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 4.1)
         22       Use of               If cryptography is used, the CBS shall use cryptographic
                  cryptography         algorithms, key sizes and mechanisms according to
                                       commonly accepted security industry practices and
                                       recommendations.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 4.3)
         Monitor the operation of the CBS and respond to incidents
         23      Audit log             The CBS shall provide the capability for accessing audit logs
                 accessibility         on read only basis by authorized humans and/or tools.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 6.1)

         Ensure that the control system operates reliably under normal production conditions
         24      Denial of service     The CBS shall provide the minimum capability to maintain
                 protection            essential functions during DoS events.
                                       Note: It is acceptable that the CBS may operate in a
                                       degraded mode upon DoS events, but it shall not fail in a
                                       manner which may cause hazardous situations. Overload-
                                       based DoS events should be considered, i.e. where the
                                       networks capacity is attempted flooded, and where the
                                       resources of a computer is attempted consumed.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.1)
         25      Resource              The CBS shall provide the capability to limit the use of
                 management            resources by security functions to prevent resource
                                       exhaustion.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.2)
         26      System backup         The identity and location of critical files and the ability to
                                       conduct backups of user-level and system-level information
                                       (including system state information) shall be supported by the
                                       CBS without affecting normal operations
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.3)
         27      System recovery       The CBS shall provide the capability to be recovered and
                 and reconstitution    reconstituted to a known secure state after a disruption or
                                       failure.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.4)
         28      Alternative power     The CBS shall provide the capability to switch to and from an
                 source                alternative power source without affecting the existing
                                       security state or a documented degraded mode.
                                       (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.5)


                                      Page 11 of 20                     IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                 E27


         29       Network and            The CBS traffic shall provide the capability to be configured
E27               security               according to recommended network and security
(cont)            configuration          configurations as described in guidelines provided by the
                  settings               supplier. The CBS shall provide an interface to the currently
                                         deployed network and security configuration settings.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.6)
         30       Least Functionality    The installation, the availability and the access rights of the
                                         following shall be limited to the strict needs of the functions
                                         provided by the CBS:
                                          - operating systems software components, processes and
                                            services
                                          - network services, ports, protocols, routes and hosts
                                            accesses and any software
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 7.7)

         4.2   Additional security capabilities

         The following additional security capabilities are required for CBSs with network
         communication to untrusted networks (i.e. interface to any networks outside the scope of UR
         E26).

         CBSs with communication traversing the boundaries of security zones shall also meet
         requirements for network segmentation and zone boundary protection in UR E26 section
         4.2.1 and 4.2.2.
                                                 Table 2

          ltem    Objective              Requirements
          No
          31     Multifactor             Multifactor authentication is required for human users when
                 authentication for      accessing the CBS from or via an untrusted network.
                 human users             (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.1, RE 2)
          32     Software process        The CBS shall identify and authenticate software processes
                 and device              and devices
                 identification and      (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.2)
                 authentication
          33     Unsuccessful login      The CBS shall enforce a limit of consecutive invalid login
                 attempts                attempts from untrusted networks during a specified time
                                         period.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.11)
          34     System use              The CBS shall provide the capability to display a system use
                 notification            notification message before authenticating. The system use
                                         notification message shall be configurable by authorized
                                         personnel.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.12)
          35     Access via              Any access to the CBS from or via untrusted networks shall
                 Untrusted               be monitored and controlled.
                 Networks                (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.13)
          36     Explicit access         The CBS shall deny access from or via untrusted networks
                 request approval        unless explicitly approved by authorized personnel on board.
                                         (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 1.13, RE1)




                                        Page 12 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                    E27


             37     Remote session          The CBS shall provide the capability to terminate a remote
E27                 termination             session either automatically after a configurable time period
(cont)                                      of inactivity or manually by the user who initiated the session.
                                            (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 2.6)
             38     Cryptographic           The CBS shall employ cryptographic mechanisms to
                    integrity protection    recognize changes to information during communication with
                                            or via untrusted networks.
                                            (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.1, RE1)
             39     Input validation        The CBS shall validate the syntax, length and content of any
                                            input data via untrusted networks that is used as process
                                            control input or input that directly impacts the action of the
                                            CBS.
                                            (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.5)
             40     Session integrity       The CBS shall protect the integrity of sessions. Invalid
                                            session IDs shall be rejected.
                                            (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.8)
             41     Invalidation of         The system shall invalidate session IDs upon user logout or
                    session IDs after       other session termination (including browser sessions).
                    session termination     (IEC 62443-3-3/SR 3.8, RE1)

         5        Secure Development Lifecycle Requirements

         A Secure Development Lifecycle (SDLC) broadly addressing security aspects in following
         stages shall be followed for the development of systems or equipment

             -    Requirement analysis phase
             -    Design phase
             -    Implementation phase
             -    Verification phase
             -    Release phase
             -    Maintenance Phase
             -    End of life phase

         A document, shall be produced that records how the security aspects have been addressed
         in above phases and shall at minimum integrate controlled processes as set out in below 5.1
         to 5.7. The said document is required to be submitted to class for review and approval.

         5.1 (IEC 62443-4-1/SM-8) The manufacturer shall have procedural and technical controls in
         place to protect private keys used for code signing, if applicable, from unauthorized access or
         modification.

         5.2 (IEC 62443-4-1/SUM-2) A process shall be employed to ensure that documentation
         about product security updates is made available to users (which could be through
         establishing a cyber security point of contact or periodic publication which can be accessed
         by the user) that includes but is not limited to:

             a)   The product version number(s) to which the security patch applies;

             b)   Instructions on how to apply approved patches manually and via an automated process;

             c)   Description of any impacts that applying the patch to the product can have, including
                  reboot;

                                           Page 13 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                  E27



E27       d)   Instructions on how to verify that an approved patch has been applied; and
(cont)
          e)   Risks of not applying the patch and mediations that can be used for patches that are
               not approved or deployed by the asset owner.

         5.3 (IEC 62443-4-1/SUM-3) A process shall be employed to ensure that documentation
         about dependent component or operating system security updates is available to users that
         includes but is not limited to:

          a)   Stating whether the product is compatible with the dependent component or operating
               system security update;

         5.4 (IEC 62443-4-1/SUM-4) A process shall be employed to ensure that security updates
         for all supported products and product versions are made available to product users in a
         manner that facilitates verification that the security patch is authentic.
         IACS supplement: The manufacturer shall have QA process to test the updates before
         releasing.

         5.5 (IEC 62443-4-1/SG-1) A process shall exist to create product documentation that
         describes the security defence in depth strategy for the product to support installation,
         operation and maintenance that includes:

          a)   Security capabilities implemented by the product and their role in the defence in depth
               strategy;

          b)   Threats addressed by the defence in depth strategy; and

          c)   Product user mitigation strategies for known security risks associated with the product,
               including risks associated with legacy code.

         5.6 (IEC 62443-4-1/SG-2) A process shall be employed to create product user
         documentation that describes the security defence in depth measures expected to be
         provided by the external environment in which the product is to be used.

         5.7 (IEC 62443-4-1/SG-3) A process shall be employed to create product user
         documentation that includes guidelines for hardening the product when installing and
         maintaining the product. The guidelines shall include, but are not limited to, instructions,
         rationale and recommendations for the following:

          a)   Integration of the product, including third-party components, with its product security
               context

          b)   Integration of the product’s application programming interfaces/protocols with user
               applications;

          c)   Applying and maintaining the product’s defence in depth strategy

          d)   Configuration and use of security options/capabilities in support of local security
               policies, and for each security option/capability:

               i. its contribution to the product’s defence in depth strategy




                                       Page 14 of 20                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                                                                E27


                   ii. descriptions of configurable and default values that include how each affects security
E27                    along with any potential impact each has on work practices; and
(cont)
                   iii. setting/changing/deleting its value;

             e)    Instructions and recommendations for the use of all security-related tools and utilities
                   that support administration, monitoring, incident handling and evaluation of the security
                   of the product;

             f)    Instructions and recommendations for periodic security maintenance activities;

             g)    Instructions for reporting security incidents for the product to the supplier;

             h)    Description of the security best practices for maintenance and administration of the
                   product.

         6         Demonstration of compliance

         6.1       Introduction

         Suppliers shall in cooperation with the System integrator determine if UR E27 is mandatory
         for the CBS, see Figure 1.

                                                                                Figure 1

             Determine if UR E27 is               CBS in scope of applica�on?
                                                                                                         No                    UR E27 is not mandatory
              mandatory for CBS                         (UR E26 sec. 1.3)




                                                                                      CBS exempted from
                                                                  Yes             cyber security requirements?         No        UR E27 is mandatory
                                                                                         (UR E26 sec. 6)




                                                                                                   Yes



         Compliance with security requirements shall be demonstrated as indicated in Figure 2. This
         classification process is ship-specific and shall result in a System certificate.

                                                                                Figure 2



                                                                          CBS has Type Approval                                   Plan approval
         Project-speciﬁc demonstra�on of compliance
                                                                     cer�ﬁcate covering requirements          No            Complete set of documents
                  with security requirements
                                                                                in UR E27?                                      (UR E27 sec. 6.2)




                                                                                   Yes
                                                                                                                       Survey and factory acceptance test
                                                                                                                               (UR E27 sec. 6.3)
                                                                              Plan approval
                                                                        Reduced set of documents
                                                                            (UR E27 sec. 6.2)


                                                                                                                                System Cer�ﬁcate
                                                                                                                                 (UR E22 sec. 2)




                                                       Page 15 of 20                                               IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                  E27


         Type approval is voluntary and applies for CBSs that are standard and routinely
E27      manufactured. See UR E22 for definition of System certification and Type approval.
(cont)
         The process in Figure 1 and Figure 2 applies also if other equivalent standards are applied
         for navigation and radiocommunication equipment (see section 1.3). In such case:

         -     the process in Figure 1 illustrates if the equivalent standard is mandatory (in lieu of UR
               E27)
         -     the process in Figure 2 illustrates that the certification process is lessened if the CBS has
               been type approved in accordance with the equivalent standard.


         6.2    Plan approval

         Plan approval is assessment of documents of a CBS intended for a specific vessel. The
         documents in section 3 are required to be submitted by the supplier. The documents shall
         enable the Society to verify compliance with requirements in this UR.

         If the CBS holds a valid Type approval certificate covering the requirements of this UR,
         subject to approval by the Society, the supplier may submit a reduced set of vessel-specific
         documents to the Society (see Appendix II).

         The approved version of the documents shall be included in the delivery of the CBS to the
         system integrator.

         6.3    Survey and factory acceptance test

         Survey and factory acceptance testing (FAT) is a vessel-specific verification activity required
         for CBSs that do not hold a valid Type approval certificate covering the requirements of this
         UR.

         The objective of the survey and FAT is to demonstrate by testing and/or analytic evaluation
         that the CBS complies with applicable requirements in this UR. The survey and FAT shall be
         carried out at the supplier’s premises or at other works having the adequate apparatus for
         testing and inspection.

         After completed plan approval and survey/FAT, the Society will issue a System certificate that
         shall accompany the CBS upon delivery to the system integrator.

         The following subsections specify the survey and FAT activities.

         6.3.1 General survey items

         The supplier shall demonstrate that design, construction, and internal testing has been
         completed.

         It shall also be demonstrated that the system to be delivered is correctly represented by the
         approved documentation. This shall be done by inspecting the system and comparing the
         components and arrangement/architecture with the asset inventory (section 3.1.1) and the
         topology diagrams (section 3.1.2).




                                        Page 16 of 20                         IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                 E27


         6.3.2 Test of security capabilities
E27
(cont)   The supplier shall test the required security capabilities on the system to be delivered. The
         tests shall be carried out in accordance with the approved test procedure in section 3.1.4 and
         be witnessed/accepted by the class surveyor.

         The tests shall provide the class surveyor with reasonable assurance that all requirements
         are met. This implies that testing of identical components is normally not required.

         6.3.3 Correct configuration of security capabilities

         The supplier shall test/demonstrate for the class surveyor that security settings in the
         system’s components have been configured in accordance with the configuration guidelines
         in section 3.1.5. This demonstration may be carried out in conjunction with testing of the
         security capabilities.

         The security settings shall be documented in a report, e.g. a ship-specific instance of the
         configuration guidelines.

         6.3.4 Secure development lifecycle

         The supplier shall, in accordance with documentation in section 3.1.6, demonstrate
         compliance with requirements for secure development lifecycle in section 5.

         6.3.4.1 Controls for private keys (IEC 62443-4-1/SM-8)

         This requirement applies if the system includes software that is digitally signed for the
         purpose of enabling the user to verify its authenticity.

         The supplier shall present management system documentation substantiating that policies,
         procedures and technical controls are in place to protect generation, storage and use of
         private keys used for code signing from unauthorized access.

         The policies and procedures shall address roles, responsibilities and work processes. The
         technical controls shall include e.g. physical access restrictions and cryptographic hardware
         (e.g. Hardware security module) for storage of the private key.

         6.3.4.2 Security update documentation (IEC 62443-4-1/SUM-2)

         The supplier shall present management system documentation substantiating that a process
         is established in the organization to ensure security updates are informed to the users. The
         information to the users shall include the items listed in section 5.2.

         6.3.4.3 Dependent component security update documentation (IEC 62443-4-1/SUM-3)

         The supplier shall present management system documentation, as required by section 5.3,
         substantiating that a process is established in the organization to ensure users are informed
         whether the system is compatible with updated versions of acquired software in the system
         (new versions/patches of operating system or firmware). The information shall address how
         to manage risks related to not applying the updated acquired software.




                                       Page 17 of 20                        IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                               E27


         6.3.4.4 Security update delivery (IEC 62443-4-1/SUM-4)
E27
(cont)   The supplier shall present management system documentation, as required by section 5.4,
         substantiating that a process is established in the organization ensuring that system security
         updates are made available to users, and describing how the user may verify the authenticity
         of the updated software.

         6.3.4.5 Product defence in depth (IEC 62443-4-1/SG-1)

         The supplier shall present management system documentation, as required by section 5.5,
         substantiating that a process is established in the organization to document a strategy for
         defence-in-depth measures to mitigate security threats to software in the CBS during
         installation, maintenance and operation.

         Examples of threats could be installation of unauthorised software, weaknesses in the
         patching process, tampering with software in the operational phase of the ship.

         6.3.4.6 Defence in depth measures expected in the environment (IEC 62443-4-1/SG-2)

         The supplier shall present management system documentation, as required by section 5.6,
         substantiating that a process is established in the organization to document defence-in-depth
         measures expected to be provided by the external environment, such as physical
         arrangement, policies and procedures.

         6.3.4.7 Security hardening guidelines (IEC 62443-4-1/SG-3)

         The supplier shall present management system documentation, as required by section 5.7,
         substantiating that a process is established in the organization to ensure that hardening
         guidelines are produced for the system.

         The guidelines shall specify how to reduce vulnerabilities in the system by removal/prohibiting
         /disabling of unnecessary software, accounts, services, etc.




                                      Page 18 of 20                       IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                             E27


         Appendix I
E27
(cont)
         Requirements:

          I.    IACS UR E10: Test Specification for Type Approval

          II.   IACS UR E22: Computer based systems

          III. IACS UR E26: Cyber Resilience of Ships


         Credits:

          I.    IACS Rec 166 (Corr.1 2020): Recommendation on Cyber Resilience

          II.   IEC 62443-3-3 (2013): Industrial communication networks – Network and system
                security. Part 3-3: System security requirements and security levels

          III. IEC 62443-4-1 (2018): Security for industrial automation and control systems Part 4-1:
               Secure product development lifecycle requirements




                                      Page 19 of 20                      IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                               E27


         Appendix II
E27
(cont)   The following table summarizes documents to be submitted by the supplier to the Society.

          Document                          Requirements                                                        Class

          CBS asset inventory               To be incorporated in Vessel asset inventory
                                                                                                                Approve 1) 2)
          (E27 sec.3.1.1)                   (E26 sec.4.1.1)

          Topology diagrams                 Enabling System integrator to design security zones and conduits
                                                                                                                Approve 1) 2)
          (E27 sec.3.1.2)                   (E26 sec.4.2.1)

                                            Required security capabilities
          Description of security           (E27 sec.4.1)
          capabilities                                                                                          Approve 1)
          (E27 sec.3.1.3)                   Additional security capabilities, if applicable
                                            (E27 sec.4.2)

                                            Required security capabilities
          Test procedure for security       (E27 sec.4.1)
          capabilities                                                                                          Approve 1)
          (E27 sec.3.1.4)                   Additional security capabilities, if applicable
                                            (E27 sec.4.2)
          Security configuration
                                            Network and security configuration settings
          guidelines                                                                                            Info 1)
                                            (E27 sec.4.1 item 29)
          (E27 sec.3.1.5)
          Secure development lifecycle      SDLC requirements
                                                                                                                Approve 1)
          (E27 sec.3.1.6)                   (E27 sec.5)
          Plans for maintenance and
                                            Security functionality verification
          verification                                                                                          Info 1)
                                            (E27 sec.4.1 item 19)
          (E27 sec.3.1.7)
                                            Auditable events
                                                                                                                Info 1)
                                            (E27 sec.4.1 item 13)

                                            Deterministic output
          Information supporting incident                                                                       Info 1)
                                            (E27 sec.4.1 item 20)
          response and recovery plans
          (E27 sec.3.1.8)                   System backup
                                                                                                                Info 1)
                                            (E27 sec.4.1 item 26)

                                            System recovery and reconstitution
                                                                                                                Info 1)
                                            (E27 sec.4.1 item 27)

          Management of change plan         Management of change process
                                                                                                                Info 1)
          (E27 sec.3.1.9)                   (E22)

          Test reports                      Configuration of security capabilities and hardening
                                                                                                                Info 2)
          (E27 sec.3.1.10)                  (E27 sec.3.1.5 and sec.5.7)

          Note 1: Required for CBS without type approved security capabilities
          Note 2: Required for CBS with type approved security capabilities




                                                                                                        End of
                                                                                                        Document




                                            Page 20 of 20                                     IACS Req. 2022/Rev.1 2023
                                                                                                          E7


E7
 A2          Cables
(1975)
 (cont)
(Rev.1
1990)        1.      Cables are to be of a type approved by the Classification Society.
(Rev.2
June 2000)   2.    Cables manufactured in accordance with the relevant recommendations of IEC 60092-
(Rev.3       350:2020, 60092-352:2005, 60092-353:2016, 60092-354:2020, 60092-360:2014, 60092-
May 2006)    370:2019 and 60092-376:2017 will be accepted by the Classification Society provided that
(Rev.4       they are tested to its satisfaction.
Apr 2016)
(Rev.5       3.    Cables manufactured and tested to standards other than those specified in 2 will be
Feb 2021)    accepted provided they are in accordance with an acceptable and relevant international or
             national standard and are of an equivalent or higher safety level than those listed in
             paragraph 2. However, cables such as flexible cable, fibre-optic cable, etc. used for special
             purposes may be accepted provided they are manufactured and tested in accordance with
             the relevant standards accepted by the Classification Society.




             Note:

             1. Rev.4 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies from 1 July 2017.

             2. Rev.5 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for cables:

                     i)    when an application for certification of cables is dated on or after 1 July 2022; or

                     ii)   which are installed in new ships contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2022.

             3. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                vessel is signed between the prospective owner and shipbuilder. For further details
                regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                (PR) No. 29.

             4. The “date of application for certification of cables” is the date of whatever document the
                Classification Society requires/accepts as an application or request for certification of
                cables.

                                                                                                  End of
                                                                                                  Document




                                                       Page 1 of 1              IACS Req. 1975/Rev.5 2021
                                                E1–E3




E1       Governing characteristics of generator
(1975)
         prime movers

                      see revised
                         M 3.2




                                                  ▲
                                                  ▲
E2       Deleted (December 1996)




                                                   ▲
                                                   ▲
E3       Deleted (December 1996)


                                                  ▲
                                                  ▲




                                         IACS Req. 1996
                                                                                                         E12



E12         Electrical Equipment allowed in paint stores
(1994)
(Cont)
(Corr.1
            and in the enclosed spaces leading to paint
1997)
(Rev.1
            stores
May 2001)
            1.      General
(Rev.2
Dec 2020)
            Electrical equipment is to be installed in paint stores and in ventilation ducts serving such
            spaces only when it is essential for operational services.

            Certified safe type equipment of the following type is acceptable;

            a.      intrinsically safe Exi

            b.      flameproof Exd

            c.      pressurised Exp

            d.      increased safety Exe

            e.      special protection Exs

            Cables (through-runs or terminating cables) of armoured type or installed in metallic conduits
            are to be used.

            2.      Minimum Requirements

            The minimum requirements for the certified safe type equipment are as follows:

            -       explosion group II B

            -       temperature class T3

            Footnote:
            The paint stores and inlet and exhaust ventilation ducts under Clause 1 are classified as Zone-1 and
            areas on open deck under Clause 4 as Zone 2, as defined in IEC 60092-502:1999.

            A watertight door may be considered as being gastight.




            Note:

            1. Rev.2 of this Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on
               ships contracted for construction on and after 1 January 2022.

            2. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
               vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
               regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
               (PR) No. 29.




                                                    Page 1 of 2                  IACS Req. 1994/Rev.2 2020
                                                                                                E12


         3.   Special requirements
E12
(Cont)   3.1    Switches, protective devices, motor control gear of electrical equipment installed in a
         paint store are to interrupt all poles or phases and preferably are to be located in non-
         hazardous space.

         3.2     In the areas on open deck within 1m of inlet and exhaust ventilation openings or within
         3 m of exhaust mechanical ventilation outlets, the following electrical equipment may be
         installed:

         -    electrical equipment with the type of protection as permitted in paint stores;

         -    equipment of protection class Exn;

         -    appliances which do not generate arcs in service and whose surface does not reach
              unacceptably high temperature;

         -    appliances with simplified pressurised enclosures or vapour-proof enclosures (minimum
              class of protection IP55) whose surface does not reach unacceptably high temperature;
              or

         -    cables as specified in clause 1.

         3.3   The enclosed spaces giving access to the paint store may be considered as
         nonhazardous, provided that:

         -    the door to the paint store is a gastight door with self-closing devices without holding
              back arrangements,

         -    the paint store is provided with an acceptable, independent, natural ventilation system
              ventilated from a safe area, and

         -    warning notices are fitted adjacent to the paint store entrance stating that the store
              contains flammable liquids.




                                                                                         End of
                                                                                         Document




                                                 Page 2 of 2             IACS Req. 1994/Rev.2 2020
                                                                                                        E13



E13
E13          Test requirements for Rotating Machines
(1996)
 (cont)
(Rev.1       1.      General
May 2001)
(Corr.1      All machines are to be tested by the manufacturer.
May 2004)
(Rev.2       Manufacturer’s test records are to be provided for machines for essential services, for other
Aug 2015)    machines they are to be available upon request.
(Corr.1
June 2018)   All tests are to be carried out according to IEC 60092-301:1980/AMD2:1995.
(Rev.3
Dec 2020)    All machines of 100kW and over, intended for essential services, are to be surveyed by the
(Corr.1      Society during test and, if appropriate, during manufacturing.
May 2022)
             Note: An alternative survey scheme may be agreed by the Society with the manufacturer
             whereby attendance of the Surveyor will not be required as required above.




             Note:

             1. Rev.2 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for rotating machines:

                  i) when an application for certification of a rotating machine is dated on or after 1 January
                     2017; or

                  ii) which are installed in new ships for which the date of contract for construction is on or
                      after 1 January 2017.

             2. Rev.3 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for rotating machines:

                  i) when an application for certification of a rotating machine is dated on or after 1 January
                     2022; or

                  ii) which are installed in new ships for which the date of contract for construction is on or
                      after 1 January 2022.

             3. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                (PR) No. 29.



                                 Page 1 of 6                       IACS Req. 1996/Rev.3 2020/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                               E13


         2.   Shaft Material
E13
(cont)   Shaft material for electric propulsion motors and for main engine driven generators where the
         shaft is part of the propulsion shafting is to be certified by the Society.

         Shaft material for other machines is to be in accordance with recognised international or
         national standard.

         3.   Tests

         Type tests are to be carried out on a prototype machine or on the first of a batch of machines,
         and routine tests carried out on subsequent machines in accordance with Table 1.

         Note: Test requirements may differ for shaft generators, special purpose machines and
         machines of novel construction.




                          Page 2 of 6                      IACS Req. 1996/Rev.3 2020/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                    E13


         Table 1
E13
(cont)                                                     A.C. Generators                    Motors
         No.                   Tests                      Type       Routine         Type          Routine
                                                          test1)      test2)         test1)          test2)
              1.   Examination of the technical
                   documentation, as
                   appropriate and visual
                   inspection                              x            x              x                x

              2.   Insulation resistance
                   measurement
                                                           x            x              x                x
              3.   Winding resistance
                   measurement
                                                           x            x              x                x
              4.   Verification of the voltage
                   regulation system
                                                           x           x3)
              5.   Rated load test and
                   temperature rise
                   measurements                            x                           x

              6.   Overload/overcurrent test               x           x4)             x                x4)
              7.   Verification of steady short
                   circuit conditions5)
                                                           x
              8.   Overspeed test
                                                           x            x             x6)               x6)
              9.   Dielectric strength test                x            x              x                x
          10.      No-load test                            x            x              x                x
          11.      Verification of degree of
                   protection
                                                           x                           x
          12.      Verification of bearings
                                                           x            x              x                x

         1)
               Type tests on prototype machine or tests on at least the first batch of machines.
         2)
               The report of machines routine tested is to contain the manufacturer’s serial number of
               the machine which has been type tested and the test result.
         3)
               Only functional test of voltage regulator system.
         4)
               Only applicable for machine of essential services rated above 100kW.
         5)
               Verification of steady short circuit condition applies to synchronous generators only.
         6)
               Not applicable for squirrel cage motors.




                              Page 3 of 6                      IACS Req. 1996/Rev.3 2020/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                   E13


         4.      Description of the test
E13
(cont)   4.1    Examination of the technical documentation, as appropriate and visual inspection

         4.1.1 Examination of the technical documentation

         Technical documentation of machines rated at 100kW and over is to be available for
         examination by the Surveyor.

         4.1.2 Visual inspection

         A visual examination is to be made of the machine to ensure, as far as is practicable, that it
         complies with technical documentation.

         4.2     Insulation resistance measurement

         Immediately after the high voltage tests the insulation resistances are to be measured using a
         direct current insulation tester between:

              a) all current carrying parts connected together and earth,

              b) all current carrying parts of different polarity or phase, where both ends of each polarity
                 or phase are individually accessible.

         The minimum values of test voltages and corresponding insulation resistances are given in
         Table 2. The insulation resistance is to be measured close to the operating temperature, or
         an appropriate method of calculation is to be used.

         Table 2

                 Related Voltage               Minimum Test Voltage            Test Minimum Insulation
                     Un (V)                            (V)                         Resistance (MΩ)
                    Un ≤ 250                         2 x Un                                1
                 250 < Un ≤ 1000                      500                                  1
                1000 < Un ≤ 7200                      1000                          (Un / 1000) + 1
                7200 < Un ≤ 15000                     5000                          (Un / 1000) + 1

         4.3     Winding resistance measurement

         The resistances of the machine windings are to be measured and recorded using an
         appropriate bridge method or voltage and current method.

         4.4     Verification of the voltage regulation system

         The alternating current generator, together with its voltage regulation system shall, at all
         loads from no-load running to full load, be able to keep rated voltage at the rated power factor
         under steady conditions within ± 2.5%. These limits may be increased to ± 3.5% for
         emergency sets.

         When the generator is driven at rated speed, giving its rated voltage, and is subjected to a
         sudden change of symmetrical load within the limits of specified current and power factor, the
         voltage is not to fall below 85% nor exceed 120% of the rated voltage.




                             Page 4 of 6                      IACS Req. 1996/Rev.3 2020/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                 E13


         The voltage of the generator is then to be restored to within plus or minus 3% of the rated
E13      voltage for the main generator sets in not more than 1.5 s. For emergency sets, these values
(cont)   may be increased to plus or minus 4% in not more than 5 s, respectively.

         In the absence of precise information concerning the maximum values of the sudden loads,
         the following conditions may be assumed: 60% of the rated current with a power factor of
         between 0.4 lagging and zero to be suddenly switched on with the generator running at no
         load, and then switched off after steady - state conditions have been reached. Subject to
         Classification Society’s approval, such voltage regulation during transient conditions may be
         calculated values based on the previous type test records, and need not to be tested during
         factory testing of a generator.

         4.5   Rated load test and temperature rise measurements

         The temperature rises are to be measured at the rated output, voltage, frequency and the
         duty for which the machine is rated and marked in accordance with the testing methods
         specified in IEC 60034-1:2017, or by means of a combination of other tests.

         The limits of temperature rise are those specified in the relevant table of IEC 60034-1:2017
         adjusted as necessary for the ambient reference temperatures specified in UR M40.

         4.6   Overload/overcurrent tests

         Overload test is to be carried out as a type test for generators as a proof of overload
         capability of generators and excitation system, for motors as a proof of momentary excess
         torque as required in IEC 60034-1:2017. The overload test can be replaced at routine test by
         the overcurrent test. The over current test shall be the proof of current capability of windings,
         wires, connections etc. of each machine. The overcurrent test can be done at reduced speed
         (motors) or at short circuit (generators).

         4.7   Verification of steady short-circuit conditions

         It is to be verified that under steady-state short-circuit conditions, the generator with its
         voltage regulating system is capable of maintaining, without sustaining any damage, a current
         of at least three times the rated current for a duration of at least 2 s or, where precise data is
         available, for a duration of any time delay which will be fitted in the tripping device for
         discrimination purposes.

         In order to provide sufficient information to the party responsible for determining the
         discrimination settings in the distribution system where the generator is going to be used, the
         generator manufacturer shall provide documentation showing the transient behaviour of the
         short circuit current upon a sudden short-circuit occurring when excited, and running at
         nominal speed. The influence of the automatic voltage regulator shall be taken into account,
         and the setting parameters for the voltage regulator shall be noted together with the
         decrement curve. Such a decrement curve shall be available when the setting of the
         distribution system’s short-circuit protection is calculated. The decrement curve need not be
         based on physical testing. The manufacturer’s simulation model for the generator and the
         voltage regulator may be used where this has been validated through the previous type test
         on the same model.




                           Page 5 of 6                      IACS Req. 1996/Rev.3 2020/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                               E13


         4.8   Overspeed test
E13
(cont)   Machines are to withstand the overspeed test as specified in to IEC 60034-1:2017. This test
         is not applicable for squirrel cage motors.

         4.9   Dielectric strength test

         Machines are to withstand a dielectric test as specified in IEC 60034-1:2017.

         For high voltage machine an impulse test is to be carried out on the coils according to UR
         E11.

         4.10 No load test

         Machines are to be operated at no load and rated speed whilst being supplied at rated
         voltage and frequency as a motor or if a generator it is to be driven by a suitable means and
         excited to give rated terminal voltage.

         During the running test, the vibration of the machine and operation of the bearing lubrication
         system, if appropriate, are to be checked.

         4.11 Verification of degree of protection

         As specified in IEC 60034-5:2000+AMD1:2006.

         4.12 Verification of bearings

         Upon completion of the above tests, machines which have sleeve bearings are to be opened
         upon request for examination by the Classification Society Surveyor, to establish that the
         shaft is correctly seated in the bearing shells.


                                                                                         End of
                                                                                         Document




                          Page 6 of 6                      IACS Req. 1996/Rev.3 2020/Corr.1 2022
                                                                                                     E15


E15
E15        Electrical Services Required to be Operable
(Nov 1999)
(cont’d)
(Rev.1     Under Fire Conditions and Fire Resistant
May 2004)
(Rev.2     Cables
Feb 2006)
(Rev.3      1        Electrical services required to be operable under fire conditions are as follows:
Dec 2014)
(Rev.4               -      Control and power systems to power-operated fire doors and status indication
Dec 2020)                   for all fire doors

                     -      Control and power systems to power-operated watertight doors and their
                            status indication

                     -      Emergency fire pump

                     -      Emergency lighting

                     -      Fire and general alarms

                     -      Fire detection systems

                     -      Fire-extinguishing systems and fire-extinguishing media release alarms

                     -      Low location lighting

                     -      Public address systems

                     -      Remote emergency stop/shutdown arrangements for systems which may
                            support the propagation of fire and/or explosion

            2       Where cables for services specified in 1 including their power supplies pass through
            high fire risk areas, and in addition for passenger ships, main vertical fire zones, other than
            those which they serve, they are to be so arranged that a fire in any of these areas or zones
            does not affect the operation of the service in any other area or zone. This may be achieved
            by either of the following measures:

                     a)     Cables being of a fire resistant type complying with IEC 60331-1:2018 for
                            cables of greater than 20 mm overall diameter, otherwise IEC 60331-
                            21:1999+AMD1:2009 or IEC 60331-2:2018 for cables with an overall diameter
                            not exceeding 20 mm, are installed and run continuous to keep the fire integrity
                            within the high fire risk area, see Figure 1.


            Notes:

            1.   Rev.3 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies from 1 January 2016.

            2.    Rev.4 of this Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on
                  ships contracted for construction on and after 1 January 2022.

            3.    The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                  vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                  regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                  (PR) No. 29.

                                                    Page 1 of 3              IACS Req. 1999/Rev.4 2020
                                                                                                      E15


                    b)      At least two-loops/radial distributions run as widely apart as is practicable and
E15                         so arranged that in the event of damage by fire at least one of the loops/radial
(cont’d)                    distributions remains operational.

                    c)      Systems that are self monitoring, fail safe or duplicated with cable runs as
                            widely separated as is practicable may be exempted.

           3      The electrical cables to the emergency fire pump are not to pass through the
           machinery spaces containing the main fire pumps and their source(s) of power and prime
           mover(s). They are to be of a fire resistant type, in accordance with 2 (a), where they pass
           through other high fire risk areas.

           Notes:

           a) For the purpose of E15 application, the definition for “high fire risk areas” is the following:

                 (i)     Machinery spaces as defined by Regulation 3.30 of SOLAS Chapter II-2, as
                         amended by IMO resolutions up to MSC.421(98) (hereinafter the same), except
                         spaces having little or no fire risk as defined by paragraphs (10) of Regulation
                         9.2.2.3.2.2 of SOLAS Chapter II-2. (Including the interpretations for tables 9.3, 9.4,
                         9.5, 9.6, 9.7 and 9.8 given in MSC/Circ.1120 as amended by MSC.1/Circ.1436
                         and MSC.1/Circ.1510)

                 (ii)    Spaces containing fuel treatment equipment and other highly flammable
                         substances

                 (iii)   Galley and Pantries containing cooking appliances

                 (iv)    Laundry containing drying equipment

                 (v)     Spaces as defined by paragraphs (8), (12), and (14) of Regulation 9.2.2.3.2.2 of
                         SOLAS Chapter II-2 for ships carrying more than 36 passengers

           b) Fire resistant type cables should be easily distinguishable.

           c) For special cables, requirements in the following standards may be used:

                 IEC 60331-23:1999: Procedures and requirements – Electric data cables
                 IEC 60331-25:1999: Procedures and requirements – Optical fibre cables




                                                   Page 2 of 3               IACS Req. 1999/Rev.4 2020
                                                                                       E15



E15                                Other area       High fire risk area      Other area
(cont’d)




           EG        ESB                                DB                 Electrical consumers


                                   DB




            Fire resistant cable            Flame retardant cable         Connection box


                                        Figure 1


                                                                           End of
                                                                           Document




                                          Page 3 of 3             IACS Req. 1999/Rev.4 2020
                                                                                                 E16




E16 Cable trays/protective casings made of
(June plastics materials
2002)

        1. General requirement

        Cable trays/protective casings made of plastics materials are to be type tested 1).

           Note:    "Plastics" means both thermoplastic and thermosetting plastic materials with
                    or without reinforcement, such as PVC and fibre reinforced plastics - FRP.
                    "Protective casing" means a closed cover in the form of a pipe or other
                    closed ducts of non-circular shape.


        2. Installation Requirements

        2.1. Cable trays/protective casings made of plastics materials are to be supplemented
        by metallic fixing and straps such that in the event of a fire they, and the cables affixed,
        are prevented from falling and causing an injury to personnel and/or an obstruction to
        any escape route.

          Note:     When plastics cable trays/protective casings are used on open deck, they
                    are additionally to be protected against UV light.

        2.2. The load on the cable trays/protective casings is to be within the Safe Working
        Load (SWL). The support spacing is not to be greater than the Manufacturer’s
        recommendation nor in excess of spacing at the SWL test. In general the spacing is not
        to exceed 2 meters.

          Note:     The selection and spacing of cable tray/protective casing supports are to
                    take into account:
                    - cable trays/protective casings’ dimensions;
                    - mechanical and physical properties of their material;
                    - mass of cable trays/protective casings;
                    - loads due weight of cables, external forces, thrust forces and vibrations;
                    - maximum accelerations to which the system may be subjected;
                    - combination of loads .

        2.3. The sum of the cables' total cross-sectional area, based on the cables' external
        diameter, is not to exceed 40% of the protective casing’s internal cross-sectional area.
        This does not apply to a single cable in a protective casing.




        Note:
        1)          Cable trays/protective casings made of plastic materials are to be type
                    tested in accordance with the Type Approval Procedure applied by the
                    Society. For guidance on testing, refer to REC 73.
                                                                                                ▲
                                                                                                ▲




                                                   E16-1                                IACS Req. 2002
                                                                                                           E19




E19 Ambient Temperatures for Electrical Equipment
(July
2003) installed in environmentally controlled spaces
(Rev.1
Sept.
2005)
         1.    Where electrical equipment is installed within environmentally controlled spaces the ambient
         temperature for which the equipment is to be suitable may be reduced from 45°C and maintained
         at a value not less than 35°C provided:


              • the equipment is not for use for emergency services.

              • temperature control is achieved by at least two cooling units so arranged that in the event
                of loss of one cooling unit, for any reason, the remaining unit(s) is capable of satisfactorily
                maintaining the design temperature.

              • the equipment is able to be initially set to work safety within a 45°C ambient
                temperature until such a time that the lesser ambient temperature may be achieved; the
                cooling equipment is to be rated for a 45°C ambient temperature.

              • audible and visual alarms are provided, at a continually manned control station, to indicate
                any malfunction of the cooling units.


         2.    In accepting a lesser ambient temperature than 45°C, it is to be ensured that electrical
         cables for their entire length are adequately rated for the maximum ambient temperature to which
         they are exposed along their length.


         3.    The equipment used for cooling and maintaining the lesser ambient temperature is to be
         classified as a secondary essential service, in accordance with UI SC 134 and to be subject to
         survey in accordance with the requirements of the relevant Society.




                                                                                                   END



                                                          E19-1                IACS Req. 2003/Rev.1 2005
                                                                                                     E20



E20
E20       Installation of electrical and electronic
(May
 (cont)
2004)
          equipment in engine rooms protected by fixed
(Rev.1    water-based local application fire-fighting
June
2009)     systems (FWBLAFFS)
          Definitions:

               Protected space:

               -   Is a machinery space where a FWBLAFFS is installed.

               Protected areas:

               -   Areas within a protected space which is required to be protected by FWBLAFFS.

               Adjacent areas:

               -   Areas, other than protected areas, exposed to direct spray.
               -   Areas, other than those defined above, where water may extend.

               See also Fig. 1

          Electrical and electronic equipment enclosures located within areas protected by FWBLAFFS and
          those within adjacent areas exposed to direct spray are to have a degree of protection not less
          than IP44, except where evidence of suitability is submitted to and approved by the Society.

          The electrical and electronic equipment within adjacent areas not exposed to direct spray may
          have a lower degree of protection provided evidence of suitability for use in these areas is
          submitted taking into account the design and equipment layout, e.g. position of inlet ventilation
          openings, cooling airflow for the equipment is to be assured.




          Note

          1.       Additional precautions may be required to be taken in respect of:

                      a.   tracking as the result of water entering the equipment
                      b.   potential damage as the result of residual salts from sea water systems
                      c.   high voltage installations
                      d.   personnel protection against electric shock




                                                  Page 1 of 2                  IACS Req. 2004/Rev.1 2009
                                        E20



E20
(cont)




                                      End of
                                      Document




         Page 2 of 2   IACS Req. 2004/Rev.1 2009
                                                        E23


E23
E23       Selection of low voltage circuit breakers on the
(Feb
(con’t)
2007)     basis of their short circuit capacity and
          co-ordination in service

          Deleted Mar 2011




                                                     End of
                                                     Document


                             Page 1 of 1        IACS Req. 2007
                                                                                                     E24



E24
E24         Harmonic Distortion for Ship Electrical
(June 2016)
 (cont)
(Rev.1
            Distribution System including Harmonic Filters
Dec 2018)
            1.      Scope

            The requirements of this UR apply to ships where harmonic filters are installed on main
            busbars of electrical distribution system, other than those installed for single application
            frequency drives such as pump motors.

            2.      General

            The total harmonic distortion (THD) of electrical distribution systems is not to exceed 8%.

            This limit may be exceeded where all installed equipment and systems have been designed
            for a higher specified limit and this relaxation on limits is documented (harmonic distortion
            calculation report) and made available on board as a reference for the surveyor at each
            periodical survey.

            3.      Monitoring of harmonic distortion levels for a ship including harmonic filters

            3.1 The ships are to be fitted with facilities to continuously monitor the levels of harmonic
            distortion experienced on the main busbar as well as alerting the crew should the level of
            harmonic distortion exceed the acceptable limits. Where the engine room is provided with
            automation systems, this reading should be logged electronically, otherwise it is to be
            recorded in the engine log book for future inspection by the surveyor.




            Note:

            1.      This UR, except for Section 3.2, is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies:
                    i. for ships contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2017 or
                    ii. for ships where an application for a periodical or occasional machinery survey after
                        the retrofit of harmonic filters is dated on or after 1 July 2017.

            2.      Section 3.2 is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for ships contracted for
                    construction before 1 July 2017, at any scheduled Machinery periodical survey having a
                    due date on or after 1 July 2017.

            3.      The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
                    vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                    regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                    (PR) No.29.

            4.      UR E24 Rev.1, except for Section 3.2, is to be uniformly implemented by IACS
                    Societies:
                    i. for ships contracted for construction on or after 1 January 2020 or
                    ii. for ships where an application for a periodical or occasional machinery survey after
                        the retrofit of harmonic filters is dated on or after 1 January 2020.



                                                   Page 1 of 2                 IACS Req. 2016/Rev.1 2018
                                                                                                E24


         3.2      As a minimum, harmonic distortion levels of main busbar on board such existing ships
E24      are to be measured annually under seagoing conditions as close to the periodical machinery
(cont)   survey as possible so as to give a clear representation of the condition of the entire plant to
         the surveyor. Harmonic distortion readings are to be carried out when the greatest amount of
         distortion is indicated by the measuring equipment. An entry showing which equipment was
         running and/or filters in service is to be recorded in the log so this can be replicated for the
         next periodical survey. Harmonic distortion levels are also to be measured following any
         modification to the ship’s electrical distribution system or associated consumers by suitably
         trained ship’s personnel or from a qualified outside source.

         Records of all the above measurements are to be made available to the surveyor at each
         periodical survey.

         4.    Mitigation of the effects of harmonic filter failure on a ship’s operation

         Where the electrical distribution system on board a ship includes harmonic filters the system
         integrator of the distribution system is to show, by calculation, the effect of a failure of a
         harmonic filter on the level of harmonic distortion experienced.

         The system integrator of the distribution system is to provide the ship owner with guidance
         documenting permitted modes of operation of the electrical distribution system while
         maintaining harmonic distortion levels within acceptable limits during normal operation as well
         as following the failure of any combination of harmonic filters.

         The calculation results and validity of the guidance provided are to be verified by the surveyor
         during sea trials.

         5.    Protection arrangements for harmonic filters

         Arrangements are to be provided to alert the crew in the event of activation of the protection
         of a harmonic filter circuit.

         A harmonic filter should be arranged as a three phase unit with individual protection of each
         phase. The activation of the protection arrangement in a single phase shall result in automatic
         disconnection of the complete filter. Additionally, there shall be installed a current unbalance
         detection system independent of the overcurrent protection alerting the crew in case of
         current unbalance.

         Consideration is to be given to additional protection for the individual capacitor element as
         e.g. relief valve or overpressure disconnector in order to protect against damage from
         rupturing. This consideration should take into account the type of capacitors used.

                                                                                        End of
                                                                                        Document




                                               Page 2 of 2                IACS Req. 2016/Rev.1 2018
                                                E1–E3




E1       Governing characteristics of generator
(1975)
         prime movers

                      see revised
                         M 3.2




                                                  ▲
                                                  ▲
E2       Deleted (December 1996)




                                                   ▲
                                                   ▲
E3       Deleted (December 1996)


                                                  ▲
                                                  ▲




                                         IACS Req. 1996
                                                E1–E3




E1       Governing characteristics of generator
(1975)
         prime movers

                      see revised
                         M 3.2




                                                  ▲
                                                  ▲
E2       Deleted (December 1996)




                                                   ▲
                                                   ▲
E3       Deleted (December 1996)


                                                  ▲
                                                  ▲




                                         IACS Req. 1996
      E4




E4           Earthing of non-current-carrying parts
(1978)
             Deleted in June 2000.




                                                      ▲
                                                      ▲




IACS Req. 2000
                                                                                                                   E5



E5       Voltage and frequency variations
(1979)
(Rev.1
Sept.    1. All electrical appliances supplied from the main or emergency systems are to be so designed and
2005)    manufactured that they are capable of operating satisfactorily under the normally occurring variations in
         voltage and frequency.

         2. Unless otherwise stated in the national or international standards, all equipment should operate
         satisfactorily with the variations from its rated value shown in the Tables 1 to 3 on the following
         conditions.


         (a)      For alternative current components, voltage and frequency variations shown in the Table 1 are
                  to be assumed.

         (b)      For direct current components supplied by d.c. generators or converted by rectifiers, voltage
                  variations shown in the Table 2 are to be assumed.

         (c)      For direct current components supplied by electrical batteries, voltage variations shown in the
                  Table 3 are to be assumed.


         3. Any special system, e.g. electronic circuits, whose function cannot operate satisfactorily within the
         limits shown in the Table should not be supplied directly from the system but by alternative means, e.g.
         through stabilized supply.

                        Table 1: Voltage and frequency variations for a.c. distribution systems

                                                                        Variations
                          Quantity in Operation
                                                       Permanent              Transient

                          Frequency                       +5%                 +10% (5 sec)

                          Voltage                      +6%, -10%              +20% (1.5 sec)




                       Table 2: Voltage variations for d.c distribution systems

                                                Parameters                    Variations

                          Voltage tolerance (continuous)                      +10%

                          Voltage cyclic variation deviation                    5%

                          Voltage ripple (a.c. r.m.s. over steady d.c.         10%
                          voltage)



                      Table 3: Voltage variations for battery systems

                         Systems                                                Variations

                         Components connected to the battery during             +30%, -25%
                         charging (see Note)

                         Components not connected to the battery                +20%, -25%
                         during charging

                         Note: Different voltage variations as determined by the charging/discharging
                               characteristics, including ripple voltage from the charging device,
                               may be considered.

                                                                                                           END



                                                                                             IACS Req. 1991/Rev.1 2005
                                    E6


E6
A2       Deleted
(cont)




                                 End of
                                 Document


                   Page 1 of 1
                                                                                                 E9



A2
E9       Earthing and bonding of cargo tanks/
(1988)
(cont)
Rev.1
         process plant/piping systems for the control
Oct      of static electricity
2012)
         E9.1 The hazard of an incentive discharge due to the build-up of static electricity resulting
         from the flow of liquids/gases/vapours can be avoided if the resistance between the cargo
         tanks/process plant/piping systems and the hull of the ship is not greater than 106 ohm.

         E9.2 This value of resistance will be readily achieved without the use of bonding straps
         where cargo tanks/process plant/piping systems are directly or via their supports, either
         welded or bolted to the hull of the ship.

         E9.3 Bonding straps are required for cargo tanks/process plant/piping systems which are not
         permanently connected to the hull of the ship, e.g.

            a)    independent cargo tanks;

            b)    cargo tanks/piping systems which are electrically separated from the hull of the ship;

            c)    pipe connections arranged for the removal of spool pieces.

            d)    wafer-style valves with non-conductive (e.g PTFE) gaskets or seals.

         E9.4 Where bonding straps are required, they should be:

            a)    clearly visible so that any shortcomings can be clearly detected;

            b)    designed and sited so that they are protected against mechanical damage and that
                  they are not affected by high resistivity contamination e.g. corrosive products or
                  paint;

            c)    easy to install and replace.

         E9.5 Checks should be made on the resistance to the hull of the ship during construction of
         the ship and at subsequent major surveys, supplemented by visual inspection during annual
         surveys.




         Note:

         1.      Revision 1 of this UR is to be implemented for ships contracted for construction on or
         after 1 January 2014.

         2.    The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build
         the vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
         regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement (PR)
         No. 29.
                                                                                            End of
                                                                                            Document


                                                 Page 1 of 1          IACS Req. 1988/Rev.1 2012
                                                                                                                               F15



F15         Reinforced thickness of ballast and cargo oil
(1982)
(cont)
(Rev.4
            piping
1989)
(Rev.5      F15.1 Ballast piping passing through cargo tanks and cargo oil pipes passing through
1996)       segregated ballast tanks, as permitted by Regulation 19.3.6 of MARPOL Annex I, are to
(Rev.6      comply with the following requirements.
Feb 2021)
(Corr.1     F15.1.1 The pipes are to be of heavy gauge steel of minimum wall thickness according to the
Feb 2022)   table hereunder with welded or heavy flanged joints1 the number of which is to be kept to a
(Rev.7      minimum.
Sep 2023)
            Expansion bends2 only are permitted in these lines within cargo tanks for serving the ballast
            tanks and within the ballast tanks for serving the cargo tanks.

                                              Nominal diameter              Minimum wall thickness
                                              (mm)                          (mm)
                                              50                            6.3
                                              100                           8.6
                                              125                           9.5
                                              150                           11.0
                                              200 and above                 12.5

            1Heavy flanges joints means welded flange joints rated at least PN10 or one pressure rating higher than required design
            pressure, whichever is greater.

            2Expansion bends means expansion loops such as an omega bend (' Ω ‘) in piping system to counteract excessive stresses or
            displacement caused by thermal expansion or hull deformation which could be fabricated from straight lengths of pipe.


            F15.2 The thicknesses shown in the above table refer to carbon steel.

            F15.3 Connection between cargo piping and ballast piping referred to above is not permitted
            except for emergency discharge as specified in the Unified Interpretation to Regulation 1.18
            of MARPOL Annex I.

            Nevertheless, provision may be made for emergency discharge of the segregated ballast by
            means of a connection to a cargo pump through a portable spool piece. In this case non-
            return valves should be fitted on the segregated ballast connections to prevent the passage
            of oil to the ballast tanks. The portable spool piece should be mounted in a conspicuous
            position in the pump room and a permanent notice restricting its use should be prominently
            displayed adjacent to it.

            Shut-off valves shall be provided to shut off the cargo and ballast lines before the spool piece
            is removed.

            F15.4 The ballast pump is to be located in the cargo pump room, or a similar space within
            the cargo area not containing any source of ignition.


            Note:

            1. Rev.7 of this Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on
               ships contracted for construction on or after 1 January 2025.



                                              Page 1 of 2                                         IACS Req. 1982/Rev.7 2023
                                                                                              F15


         2. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
F15         vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
(cont)      regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
            (PR) No. 29.


                                                                                     End of
                                                                                     Document




                                 Page 2 of 2                            IACS Req. 1982/Rev.7 2023
                                                                                               F 42



F42
Ax          Fire testing of flexible pipes
(1995)
(cont)
(Del
Nov 2023)   Deleted in November 2023, as these interpretations are considered by IACS UR P2.




                                                                                     End of
                                                                                     Document




                                               Page 1 of 1                 IACS Req. 1995/Del 2023
                                                                                 F43



F43
 P3          Installation requirements for analysing units
  (cont)
(1997)
(Rev.1
             for continuous monitoring of flammable
July 1999)   vapours
(Rev.2
June 2002)
(Del         Deleted in January 2025.
Jan 2025)
             All the requirements have been included into FSS CODE CHAPTER 16 FIXED
             HYDROCARBON GAS DETECTION SYSTEMS, as amended by resolution MSC.292(87),
             and relating SOLAS provisions.




                                          Page 1 of 1              IACS Req. 1997/2025
                                                                                                 F44



F44         Fore peak ballast tanks and space
(June
(cont)2000) arrangements on oil & chemical tankers
(Rev.1
Aug 2008)
(Rev.2      Definitions
Oct 2010)
(Rev.3      The following definitions apply in this UR.
Sep 2024)
(Corr.1     Hazardous area means an area in which an explosive gas atmosphere is present, or may be
Mar 2025)   expected to be present, in quantities such as to require special precautions for the
            construction, installation and use of equipment.

            Non-hazardous area means an area that is not a hazardous area.

            Cargo area of tankers are defined in:

                    - for tankers to which regulation 1.6.1 of SOLAS Chapter II-2 as amended by IMO
                    resolutions up to MSC.421(98) (hereinafter the same) applies, regulation 3.6 of
                    SOLAS Chapter II-2:

                    - for chemical tankers, Paragraph 1.3.6 of the IBC Code as amended by IMO
                    resolutions up to MSC.460(101):

            1 Fore peak ballast tanks and space arrangements on tankers for oil and/or chemicals

            1.1 The fore peak tank can be ballasted with the system serving other ballast tanks within the
            cargo area, provided:

                    a) The vent pipe openings are located on open deck at a distance from sources of
                       ignition as required by IEC 60092-502:1999 Electrical installations in ships –
                       Tankers – Special features; This requirement does not apply to sounding
                       arrangements.


            Note:

            1. Rev.2 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted for
               construction on or after 1 January 2012.

            2. Rev.3 of this Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on
               ships contracted for construction on or after 1 January 2026.

            3. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
               vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
               regarding the date of “contract for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
               (PR) No. 29.




                                                      Page 1 of 5    IACS Req. 2000/Rev.3 Corr.1 2025
                                                                                               F44


                 b) Access to the fore peak tank is direct from open deck. Alternatively, indirect
F44                 access from the open deck to the forepeak tank may be from a pump-room, deep
(cont)              cofferdam, pipe tunnel, cargo hold, double hull space, bosun’s store or similar
                    compartment not intended for the carriage of oil or hazardous cargoes,
                    conforming to the requirements of SOLAS II-1/3-6.3.1. Electrical equipment in
                    such indirect access shall be of the certified safe type suitable for use in the
                    hazardous area it opens into or shall be isolated before entry.

                 c) Continuous ventilation is maintained while accessing the forepeak tank

                 d) The sounding arrangement to the fore peak tank is direct from open deck.

                 e) The forepeak tank is gas freed direct from open deck, or through a dedicated
                    trunk to open deck. Before the manhole and the entrance of the dedicated trunk
                    are opened, the trunk and the forepeak tank shall be confirmed as made gas free.
                    Means are to be provided to free the space of gas without opening manholes or
                    the entrance to a dedicated trunk. Manholes on the open deck and away from
                    sources of ignition at the top of the dedicated trunk which are used to gas-free the
                    space are allowed to be opened.

                 f) The fore peak ballast tank is considered as a hazardous zone 2 if segregated
                    from cargo area with a cofferdam, or as a hazardous zone 1 if located adjacent to
                    a cargo tank. For tankers where a bow thruster space is provided, the piping
                    passing through the non-hazardous bow thruster room shall be fully welded and it
                    is required to have the collision bulkhead valve located within the forepeak tank.

                 g) Means are to be provided on the open deck by a suitable portable instrument, to
                    allow detection of toxic and flammable vapours within the FPT (based on the
                    cargoes carried in current voyage, and since last de-ballasting of FPT was carried
                    out), in order to ensure the FPT is fully gas freed. In the case that sounding
                    arrangements can be used as the means for the portable instrument additional
                    means for the purpose is not required.

         2 Additional requirements for forward spaces not being defined as a ballast tank

         2.1 Any spaces, voids and/or indirect accesses from the open deck or intermediate space
         being located adjacent to cargo tanks, and/or are defined as hazardous area zone 1 or 2,
         shall follow the same requirements to openings and access as reflected for fore peak ballast
         tanks in section 1.

         2.2 In case any spaces or voids are defined as non-hazardous spaces and have access to
         other non-hazardous spaces (such as bosun store), the following applies:

            a) For any non-hazardous space with access to a hazardous space (example: fore peak
               ballast tank), the non-hazardous space must have access directly to open deck and
               shall be gas freed directly from open deck, and not through the non-hazardous space
               (example: bosun store).

            b) Access from bosun store to a non-hazardous space (example: void) having access to
               hazardous space (example: fore peak ballast tank) may be accepted through a gas
               tight bolted manhole, with signboard stating that the non-hazardous space cannot be
               entered until the space is confirmed gas free. Separation of such spaces are
               described in IEC 60092-502:1999 section 4.1.4 and 4.1.5 as applicable.

         The following figures illustrate the above points:



                                                   Page 2 of 5    IACS Req. 2000/Rev.3 Corr.1 2025
                                                                                           F44


         Arrangements shown in samples 1, 2, 5 and 6 are applicable to both oil tankers and chemical
F44      tankers
(cont)




                                                Page 3 of 5     IACS Req. 2000/Rev.3 Corr.1 2025
                                               F44



F44
(cont)




         Page 4 of 5   IACS Req. 2000/Rev.3 Corr.1 2025
                                                                                        F44


         Arrangements shown in samples 3 and 4 are applicable to oil tankers only.
F44
(cont)




                                                                                           End of
                                                                                           Document


                                                Page 5 of 5     IACS Req. 2000/Rev.3 Corr.1 2025
                                 F10, F11 and F12



F10
A2       Deleted
(cont)




F11      Deleted


F12      Deleted




                                      End of
                                      Document




                   Page 1 of 1     IACS Req. 2013
                                 F10, F11 and F12



F10
A2       Deleted
(cont)




F11      Deleted


F12      Deleted




                                      End of
                                      Document




                   Page 1 of 1     IACS Req. 2013
                                 F10, F11 and F12



F10
A2       Deleted
(cont)




F11      Deleted


F12      Deleted




                                      End of
                                      Document




                   Page 1 of 1     IACS Req. 2013
F13




F13          Gland seals in pump room bulkheads
(1972)
(Rev. 1
1977)
             Where drive shafts pass through pump room bulkhead or deck plating, gastight glands are to be fitted.
             The glands are to be efficiently lubricated from outside the pumproom. The seal parts of the glands are to
             be of material that will not initiate sparks. The glands are to be constructed and fitted in accordance with
             the relative rules for fittings attached to watertight bulkheads, and if a bellows piece is incorporated in
             the design, it should be pressure tested before fitting.




                                                                                                                    ▼
                                                                                                                    ▼




IACS Req. 1989
                                                                                      F14




F14   Deleted
      - the requirements are now addressed by IMO Res. A.446 (XI)




                                                                                      ▼
                                                                                      ▼




                                                                    IACS Req. 1989/Rev 1996
 16




F16          Bow and stern loading and unloading
(1972)
(Rev.1       arrangements on oil tankers
June
2000)
             Where a cargo hose connection is arranged outside the cargo tank area, the pipe leading to such
             connections is to be provided with means of segregation such as a spectacle flange, removable spool
             piece or equivalent* located within the cargo area. The space within 3 m of the manifold is to be
             considered as a dangerous area with regard to electrical or incendive equipment.



             * See MSC/Circ. 474.




                                                                                                           ▼
                                                                                                           ▼




IACS Req. 1972/Rev.1 2000
                                                                                                          F17




F17   Deleted
      - this is of a general nature concerning operational matters and should not be categorosed as UR.




                                                                                                          ▼
                                                                                                          ▼




                                                                                        IACS Req. 1986/Rev 1996
F18-19




F18          Deleted (1997)




                              ▼
                              ▼
F19          Deleted




                              ▼
                              ▼




IACS Req. 1997
F18-19




F18          Deleted (1997)




                              ▼
                              ▼
F19          Deleted




                              ▼
                              ▼




IACS Req. 1997
                                                                                                  F1



F1
F1        Cathodic protection on oil tankers
 (cont)
(1971)
(Rev.1    F1.1 Impressed current systems are not permitted in oil cargo tanks.
June
2002)     F1.2 Magnesium or magnesium alloy anodes are not permitted in oil cargo tanks and tanks
          adjacent to cargo tanks.

          F1.3 Aluminium anodes are only permitted in cargo tanks and tanks adjacent to cargo tanks
          in locations where the potential energy does not exceed 28 kg m (200 ft lb). The height of the
          anode is to be measured from the bottom of the tank to the centre of the anode, and its
          weight is to be taken as the weight of the anode as fitted, including the fitting devices and
          inserts. However, where aluminium anodes are located on horizontal surfaces such as
          bulkhead girders and stringers not less than 1 m wide and fitted with an upstanding flange or
          face flat projecting not less than 75 mm above the horizontal surface, the height of the anode
          may be measured from this surface. Aluminium anodes are not to be located under tank
          hatches or Butterworth openings (in order to avoid any metal parts falling on the fitted
          anodes), unless protected by adjacent structure.

          F1.4 There is no restriction on the positioning of zinc anodes.

          F1.5 The anodes should have steel cores and these should be sufficiently rigid to avoid
          resonance in the anode support and be designed so that they retain the anode even when it
          is wasted.

          F1.6 The steel inserts are to be attached to the structure by means of a continuous weld of
          adequate section. Alternatively they may be attached to separate supports by bolting,
          provided a minimum of two bolts with locknuts are used. However, approved mechanical
          means of clamping will be accepted.

          F1.7 The supports at each end of an anode should not be attached to separate items which
          are likely to move independently.

          F1.8 When anode inserts or supports are welded to the structure, they should be arranged so
          that the welds are clear of stress raisers.




                                                                                              End of
                                                                                              Document




                                                Page 1 of 1             IACS Req. 1971/Rev.1 2002
                                                                                                   F20



F20
 F20         Inert Gas Systems
(1974)
  (cont)
(Rev.1       F20.1    General Requirements
1983)
(Rev.2       F20.1.1 All types of inert gas systems are to comply with the following:
1987)
(Rev.3       .1       Plans in diagrammatic form are to be submitted for appraisal and should include the
May 1998)             following:
(Corr.
Sept 2001)            - details and arrangement of the inert gas generating plant including all control and
(Rev.4                  monitoring devices;
May 2004)
(Rev.5                - arrangement of the piping system for distribution of the inert gas.
Nov 2005)
(Rev.6       .2       An automatic control capable of producing suitable inert gas under all service
May 2012)             conditions is to be fitted.
(Rev.7
May 2015)    .3       Subsequent surveys are to be carried out at the intervals required by the
                      Classification Society Rules.

             F20.2 Requirements for All Systems on Tankers, including Chemical Tankers, to
             which SOLAS regulation II-2/4.5.5.1 applies

             F20.2.1 An inert gas system complying with the applicable requirements of Ch. 15 of the FSS
             Code, as amended by MSC.367 (93), is to be fitted on tankers to which SOLAS regulation II-
             2/4.5.5.1 applies. In applying the applicable requirements of Ch. 15 of the FSS Code, any use
             of the word "Administration" therein is to be considered as meaning the relevant Classification
             Society. The inert gas system is to be operated in accordance with SOLAS regulation II-
             2/16.3.3, as amended by MSC.365(93). In applying SOLAS regulation II-2/16.3.3.2,
             paragraph 2.2.1.2.4 of Ch. 15 of the FSS Code is to be complied with.




             NOTES:

             1.   Rev.6 is to be applied by IACS Societies on ships contracted for construction on or after
                  1 July 2013.

             2.   Rev.7 is to be applied by IACS Societies on ships constructed on or after 1 January
                  2016.

             3.   The "contracted for construction" date means the date on which the contract to build the
                  vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
                  regarding the date of "contract for construction", refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
                  (PR) No. 29.



                                                  Page 1 of 3              IACS Req.1974/Rev.7 2015
                                                                                                                 F20


         F20.3 Additional Requirements for Nitrogen Generator Systems on Tankers,
F20      including Chemical Tankers, to which SOLAS regulation II-2/4.5.5.1 applies
(cont)
         F20.3.1 The following requirements apply where a nitrogen generator system is fitted on
         board as required by SOLAS regulation II-2/4.5.5.1. For the purpose, the inert gas is to be
         produced by separating air into its component gases by passing compressed air through a
         bundle of hollow fibres, semi-permeable membranes or adsorber materials.

         F20.3.2 In addition to the applicable requirements of Ch. 15 of the FSS Code, as amended
         by MSC.367(93), the nitrogen generator system is to comply with SOLAS regulations II-
         2/4.5.3.4.2, 4.5.6.3 and 11.6.3.4.

         F20.3.3 A nitrogen generator is to consist of a feed air treatment system and any number of
         membrane or adsorber modules in parallel necessary to meet paragraph 2.2.1.2.4 of Ch.15 of
         the FSS Code, as amended by MSC.367(93).

         F20.3.4 The nitrogen generator is to be capable of delivering high purity nitrogen in
         accordance with paragraph 2.2.1.2.5 of Ch.15 of the FSS Code, as amended by
         MSC.367(93). In addition to paragraph 2.2.2.4 of Ch.15 of the FSS Code, as amended by
         MSC.367(93), the system is to be fitted with automatic means to discharge "off-spec" gas to
         the atmosphere during start-up and abnormal operation.

         F20.3.5 The system is to be provided with one or more compressors to generate enough
         positive pressure to be capable of delivering the total volume of gas required by 2.2.1.2 of the
         FSS Code, as amended by MSC.367(93). Where two compressors are provided, the total
         required capacity of the system is preferably to be divided equally between the two
         compressors, and in no case is one compressor to have a capacity less than 1/3 of the total
         capacity required.

         F20.3.6 The feed air treatment system fitted to remove free water, particles and traces of oil
         from the compressed air as required by 2.4.1.2 of Ch.15 of the FSS Code, as amended by
         MSC.367(93), is also to preserve the specification temperature.

         F20.3.7 The oxygen-enriched air from the nitrogen generator and the nitrogen-product
         enriched gas from the protective devices of the nitrogen receiver are to be discharged to a
         safe location* on the open deck.

         F20.3.8 In order to permit maintenance, means of isolation are to be fitted between the
         generator and the receiver.




         *)
              “safe location” needs to address the two types of discharges separately:

         1. oxygen-enriched air from the nitrogen generator - safe locations on the open deck are:
            - outside of hazardous area;
            - not within 3m of areas traversed by personnel; and
            - not within 6m of air intakes for machinery (engines and boilers) and all ventilation inlets.

         2. nitrogen-product enriched gas from the protective devices of the nitrogen receiver - safe locations on the open
            deck are:
            - not within 3m of areas traversed by personnel; and
            - not within 6m of air intakes for machinery (engines and boilers) and all ventilation inlets/outlets.




                                                         Page 2 of 3                     IACS Req.1974/Rev.7 2015
                                                                                               F20


         F20.4 Nitrogen /Inert Gas Systems Fitted for Purposes other than Inerting Required
F20      by SOLAS Reg. II-2/4.5.5.1 and 4.5.5.2
(cont)
         F20.4.1 This section applies to systems fitted on oil tankers, gas tankers or chemical tankers
         to which SOLAS regulations II-2/4.5.5.1 and 4.5.5.2 do not apply.

         F20.4.2 Paragraphs 2.2.2.2, 2.2.2.4, 2.2.4.2, 2.2.4.3, 2.2.4.5.1.1, 2.2.4.5.1.2, 2.2.4.5.4,
         2.4.1.1, 2.4.1.2, 2.4.1.3, 2.4.1.4, 2.4.2.1 and 2.4.2.2 of Ch.15 of the FSS Code, as amended
         by MSC.367(93), as applicable apply to the systems.

         F20.4.3 The requirements of section F20.3 apply except paragraphs F20.3.1, F20.3.2,
         F20.3.3 and F20.3.5.

         F20.4.4 Materials used in inert gas systems are to be suitable for their intended purpose in
         accordance with the Rules of the Classification Society.

         F20.4.5 All the equipment is to be installed on board and tested under working conditions to
         the satisfaction of the Surveyor.

         F20.4.6 The two non-return devices as required by paragraph 2.2.3.1.1 of Ch.15 of the FSS
         Code, as amended by MSC.367(93) are to be fitted in the inert gas main. The non-return
         devices are to comply with 2.2.3.1.2 and 2.2.3.1.3 of Ch.15 of the FSS Code, as amended by
         MSC.367(93); however, where the connections to the cargo tanks, to the hold spaces or to
         cargo piping are not permanent, the non-return devices required by paragraph 2.2.3.1.1 of
         Ch.15 of the FSS Code, as amended by MSC.367(93) may be substituted by two non-return
         valves.




                                                                                        End of
                                                                                        Document




                                              Page 3 of 3             IACS Req.1974/Rev.7 2015
                                                                                                         F21-F22




F21      Pump room ventilation
(1974)

         With the following arrangement of exhaust trunking there should be 20 air changes per hour on the total
         volume of the pump room:

              (i)   In the pump room bilges just above the transverse floor plates on bottom longitudinals, so that
                    air can flow over the top from adjacent spaces.
              (ii) An emergency intake located about 2 m above the pump room lower grating. This emergency
                    intake would be used when the lower intakes are sealed off due to flooding in the bilges. The
                    emergency intake should have a damper fitted which is capable of being opened or closed
                    from the exposed main deck and lower grating level.
              (iii) The foregoing exhaust system is in association with open grating floor plates to allow the free
                    flow of air.
              (iv) Arrangements involving a specific ratio of areas of upper emergency and lower main
                    ventilator openings, which can be shown to result in at least the required 20 air changes per
                    hour through the lower inlets, can be adopted without the use of dampers. When the lower
                    access inlets are closed then at least 15 air changes per hour should be obtained through the
                    upper inlets.




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼
F22      Direct loading pipes to oil tanker cargo
(1974)
         tanks

         In order to avoid the generation of static electricity when cargo is loaded direct into tanks, the loading
         pipes are to be led as low as practicable in the tank.




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼




                                                                                                    IACS Req. 1987
                                                                                                         F21-F22




F21      Pump room ventilation
(1974)

         With the following arrangement of exhaust trunking there should be 20 air changes per hour on the total
         volume of the pump room:

              (i)   In the pump room bilges just above the transverse floor plates on bottom longitudinals, so that
                    air can flow over the top from adjacent spaces.
              (ii) An emergency intake located about 2 m above the pump room lower grating. This emergency
                    intake would be used when the lower intakes are sealed off due to flooding in the bilges. The
                    emergency intake should have a damper fitted which is capable of being opened or closed
                    from the exposed main deck and lower grating level.
              (iii) The foregoing exhaust system is in association with open grating floor plates to allow the free
                    flow of air.
              (iv) Arrangements involving a specific ratio of areas of upper emergency and lower main
                    ventilator openings, which can be shown to result in at least the required 20 air changes per
                    hour through the lower inlets, can be adopted without the use of dampers. When the lower
                    access inlets are closed then at least 15 air changes per hour should be obtained through the
                    upper inlets.




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼
F22      Direct loading pipes to oil tanker cargo
(1974)
         tanks

         In order to avoid the generation of static electricity when cargo is loaded direct into tanks, the loading
         pipes are to be led as low as practicable in the tank.




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼




                                                                                                    IACS Req. 1987
F23




F23          Deleted
              - the requirements are overtaken by the development of MARPOL Convention.




                                                                                          ▼
                                                                                          ▼




IACS Req. 1986/Rev 1996
                                                                                                         F24-F25




F24
(1971)
          Temperature of Steam and Heating Media
(Rev. 1
1975
          within the Cargo Area
(Rev. 2   On oil tankers, the steam and heating media temperature within the cargo area is not to exceed 220°C.
May
1998)     On gas carriers and chemical tankers, the maximum temperature is to be adjusted to take into account the
          temperature class of the cargoes.




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼
F25       Deleted




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼




                                                                                        IACS Req. 1971, Rev. 2 1998
                                                                                                         F24-F25




F24
(1971)
          Temperature of Steam and Heating Media
(Rev. 1
1975
          within the Cargo Area
(Rev. 2   On oil tankers, the steam and heating media temperature within the cargo area is not to exceed 220°C.
May
1998)     On gas carriers and chemical tankers, the maximum temperature is to be adjusted to take into account the
          temperature class of the cargoes.




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼
F25       Deleted




                                                                                                              ▼
                                                                                                              ▼




                                                                                        IACS Req. 1971, Rev. 2 1998
                                                                                                  F26




F26         Safety aspects of double bottoms and duct
(1977)
(Rev 1
1996)
            keels under cargo oil tanks
(Rev.2
June
2000)       Pipe ducts in the double bottom shall comply with the following requirements:
(Rev.3
May 2004)   (i) They should not communicate with the engine room.
            (ii) Provision shall be made for at least two exits to the open deck arranged at a
                  maximum distance from each other. One of these exits fitted with a watertight
                  closure may lead to the cargo pumproom.
            (iii) In the duct, provision shall be made for adequate mechanical ventilation.



            Note: For ships to which the convention applies, refer to SOLAS 1974 (as amended),
                 Reg II-2/4.5.2.4
            _______________________________




                                                                                                  ▼
                                                                                                  ▼
            Revision Note: Rev.3 only updates references




                                                           F26-1


                                                                             IACS Req. 1977/Rev .3 2004
F27-F28




F27
(1978)
             Cargo openings in the bottoms of topside
             tanks of ships carrying alternatively oil and
             grain

             Ships carrying alternatively oil having a flash point not exceeding 60°C (closed cup test) or other cargoes.

             When ships are designed to transport alternatively oil or dry cargoes, openings which may be used for
             cargo operations are not permitted in bulkheads and decks separating oil cargo spaces from other spaces
             not designed and equipped for the carriage of oil cargoes unless alternative approved means are provided
             to ensure equivalent integrity.




                                                                                                                   ▼
                                                                                                                   ▼
 F28 Deleted




                                                                                                                    ▼




IACS Req. 1986
F27-F28




F27
(1978)
             Cargo openings in the bottoms of topside
             tanks of ships carrying alternatively oil and
             grain

             Ships carrying alternatively oil having a flash point not exceeding 60°C (closed cup test) or other cargoes.

             When ships are designed to transport alternatively oil or dry cargoes, openings which may be used for
             cargo operations are not permitted in bulkheads and decks separating oil cargo spaces from other spaces
             not designed and equipped for the carriage of oil cargoes unless alternative approved means are provided
             to ensure equivalent integrity.




                                                                                                                   ▼
                                                                                                                   ▼
 F28 Deleted




                                                                                                                    ▼




IACS Req. 1986
                                                                                                                F29




F29       Non-sparking fans
(1973)
(Rev. 1
1978)
(Rev. 2   F29.1    Introduction
1979)
Rev. 3    A fan is considered as non-sparking if in either normal or abnormal conditions it is unlikely to produce
1980)     sparks.
(Rev. 4
1983)     F29.2    Design criteria
(Rev. 5
1994)     F29.2.1 The air gap between the impeller and the casing shall be not less than 0,1 of the shaft diameter
(Rev.6    in way of the impeller bearing but not less than 2 mm. It need not be more than 13 mm.
June
2005)     F29.2.2 Protection screens of not more than 13 mm square mesh are to be fitted in the inlet and outlet
          ventilation openings on the open deck to prevent the entrance of objects into the fan housing.

          F29.3    Materials

          F29.3.1 The impeller and the housing in way of the impeller are to be made of alloys which are
          recognised as being spark proof by appropriate test.

          F29.3.2 Electrostatic charges both in the rotating body and the casing are to be prevented by the use of
          antistatic materials. Furthermore, the installation on board of the ventilation units is to be such as to
          ensure the safe bonding to the hull of the units themselves.

          F29.3.3 Tests may not be required for fans having the following combinations:

          (i)   impellers and/or housings of nonmetallic material, due regard being paid to the elimination of static
                electricity,
          (ii) impellers and housings of non-ferrous materials,
          (iii) Impellers of aluminium alloys or magnesium alloys and a ferrous (including austenitic stainless
                steel) housing on which a ring of suitable thickness on non-ferrous materials is fitted in way of the
                impeller,
          (iv) any combination of ferrous (including austenitic stainless steel)impellers and housings with not less
                than 13 mm tip design clearance.

          F29.3.4 The following impellers and housings are considered as sparking and are not permitted:

          (i)   impellers of an aluminium alloy or magnesium alloy and a ferrous housing, regardless of tip
                clearance,
          (ii) housing made of an aluminium alloy or a magnesium alloy and a ferrous impeller, regardless of tip
                clearance,
          (iii) any combination of ferrous impeller and housing with less than 13 mm design tip clearance.

          F29.3.5 Type tests on the finished product are to be carried out in accordance with the requirements of
          the Classification Society or an equivalent national or international standard.
                                                                                                                ▼
                                                                                                                ▼




                                                     F29-1


                                                                                                IACS Req. Rev.6 2005
                                                                                                  F2



F2
F2        Aluminium coatings on board oil tankers and
(1971)
(cont)
(Rev.1    chemical tankers
May
1998)     The use of aluminium coatings containing greater than 10 percent aluminium by weight in the
(Corr.1   dry film is prohibited in cargo tanks, cargo tank deck area, pump rooms, cofferdams or any
Mar       other area where cargo vapour may accumulate.
1999)
(Rev.2    Aluminised pipes may be permitted in ballast tanks, in inerted cargo tanks and, provided the
Nov       pipes are protected from accidental impact, in hazardous areas on open deck.
2012)




          Note:

          1.      Revision 2 of this UR is to be applied by IACS Societies from 1 January 2014 to new
                  tankers and new applications of coating and piping on existing tankers.




                                                                                         End of
                                                                                         Document


                                                 Page 1 of 1           IACS Req. 1971/Rev.2 2012
                                                                                                F3



F3
A2       Tank cleaning openings
(1971)
(cont)
         Ullage plugs, sighting ports and tank cleaning openings are not to be arranged in enclosed
         spaces.




                                                                                            End of
                                                                                            Document


                                              Page 1 of 1                           IACS Req. 1971
                                                        F30.1–F30.2.6




F30         Emergency fire pumps in cargo ships
(1974)
(Rev. 1
1976)
(Rev. 2     Deleted in February 2002.
1978)
Rev. 3
1980)
Rev. 4
1984)
Rev. 5
1995)
(Rev 6
1997)
(Rev. 7
Feb 2002)




                                                                      ▼




                                        F30-1


                                                IACS Req. 1984, Rev. 1997
F30.2.7–F30.4.2




F30
cont'd




                                                                                         ▼
                                                                                         ▼
F31           Fire prevention for unattended machinery
(1976)
              spaces
              The whole UR F31 was deleted as the requirements are now covered by F35.
                                                                                         ▼
                                                                                         ▼




                                                    F30-2


IACS Req. 1984, Rev. 1995/Corr. 1997
F30.2.7–F30.4.2




F30
cont'd




                                                                                         ▼
                                                                                         ▼
F31           Fire prevention for unattended machinery
(1976)
              spaces
              The whole UR F31 was deleted as the requirements are now covered by F35.
                                                                                         ▼
                                                                                         ▼




                                                    F30-2


IACS Req. 1984, Rev. 1995/Corr. 1997
                                                                                                                  F32




F32      Fire detecting system for unattended
(1976)
         machinery spaces

         F32.1    An automatic fire detection system is to be fitted in the machinery spaces.

         F32.2 The system is to be designed with self-monitoring properties. Power or system failures are to
         initiate an audible alarm distinguishable from the fire alarm.

         F32.3 The fire detection indicating panel is to be located on the navigating bridge, fire control station,
         or other accessible place where a fire in the machinery space will not render it inoperative.

         F32.4 The fire detection indicating panel is to indicate the place of the detected fire in accordance with
         the arranged fire zones by means of a visual signal. Audible signals clearly distinguishable in character
         from any other audible signals shall be audible throughout the navigating bridge and the accommodation
         area of the personnel responsible for the operation of the machinery space.

         F32.5 Fire detectors are to be of types, and so located, that they will rapidly detect the onset of fire in
         conditions normally present in the machinery space. Consideration is to be given to avoiding false
         alarms. The type and location of detectors are to be approved by the Classification Society and a
         combination of detector types is recommended in order to enable the system to react to more than one
         type of fire symptom.

         F32.6 Fire detector zones are to be arranged in a manner that will enable the operating staff to locate
         the seat of the fire. The arrangement and the number of loops and the location of detector heads is to be
         approved in each case. Air currents created by the machinery are not to render the detection system
         ineffective.

         F32.7 When fire detectors are provided with the means to adjust their sensitivity, necessary
         arrangements are to be ensured to fix and identify the set point.

         F32.8 When it is intended that a particular loop or detector is to be temporarily switched off, this state is
         to be clearly indicated. Reactivation of the loop or detector is to be performed automatically after a
         present time.

         F32.9    The fire detection indicating panel is to be provided with facilities for functional testing.

         F32.10 The fire detecting system shall be fed automatically from the emergency source of power by a
         separate feeder if the main source of power fails.

         F32.11 Facilities are to be provided in the fire detecting system to release manually the fire alarm from
         the following places:

                 Passageways having entrances to engine and boiler rooms,
                 navigating bridge,
                 control station in engine room.

         F32.12 The testing of the fire detecting system on board is to be carried out to the satisfaction of the
         individual Classification Society.

         NOTE
         Requirements on indication of the operation of each individual detecting head are left to the discretion of
         each Classification Society.
                                                                                                                  ▼
                                                                                                                  ▼




                                                     F32-1


                                                                                                        IACS Req. 1976
                                                                                                           F33




F33      Prohibition of carriage in fore peak tanks of
(1981)
         oil or other liquid substances which are
         flammable

         In ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above, compartments forward o f the collision bulkhead shall not
         be arranged for the carriage of oil or other liquid substances which are flammable.




                                                                                                           ▼
                                                                                                           ▼




                                                    F33-1



                                                                                                 IACS Req. 1981
                                                                                               F34



F34
A2       Low-pressure carbon dioxide smothering
(1982)
(cont)
(Rev.1
         systems
1989)
         Deleted with effect from 1 July 2010 following entry into force of IMO Res. MSC.206(81).




                                                                                         End of
                                                                                         Document




                                              Page 1 of 1               IACS Req. 1982 / Rev.1 1989
  F35




F35           Fire Protection of Machinery Spaces
(1986)
(Rev. 1
1989)
(Rev. 2       In the implementation of the SOLAS Chapter II-2, the following requirements are
1992)         to be met:
(Rev. 3
1995)
(Rev. 4       1.     Reg.II-2/4.2.2.4
1996)
(Rev. 5       Air pipes from oil fuel tanks should be led to a safe position on the open deck.
1997)
(Rev. 6
June 1999)    Air pipes from lubricating oil storage tanks may terminate in the machinery space,
(Rev.7        provided that the open ends are so situated that issuing oil cannot come into contact
July 2003)    with electrical equipment or heated surfaces.
(Rev.8
June 2005)    Any overflow pipe should have a sectional area of at least 1,25 times that of the filling
              pipe and should be led to an overflow tank of adequate capacity or to a storage tank
              having space reserved for overflow purposes.

              An alarm device should be provided to give warning when the oil reaches a
              predetermined level in the tank, or alternatively, a sight glass should be provided in the
              overflow pipe to indicate when any tank is overflowing. Such sight glasses should be
              placed on vertical pipes only and in readily visible positions.


              2.     Reg.II-2/4.2.2.3.5.1

              Short sounding pipes may be used for tanks other than double bottom tanks without
              the additional closed level gauge provided an overflow system is fitted.


              3.     Reg.II-2/4.2.2.3

              Level switches may be used below the tank top provided they are contained in a steel
              enclosure or other enclosures not capable of being destroyed by fire.


              4.     Reg.II-2/5.2.2.3

              Controls required by this regulation should also be provided from the compartment
              itself.


              5.     Reg.II-2/4.2.2.5.1

              Hose clamps and similar types of attachments for flexible pipes should not be
              permitted.


              6.     Reg.II-2/4.2.2 and 4.2.5.2

              Oil fuel in storage tanks should not to be heated to temperatures within 10°C below the
              flash point of the fuel oil, except that where oil fuel in service tanks, settling tanks and
              any other tanks in supply system is heated the following arrangements should be
              provided:

              •      the length of the vent pipes from such tanks and/or a cooling device is sufficient
                                                                                                     ▼




IACS Req. 1986, Rev.8, 2005                               F35-1
                                                                                                 F35




F35          for cooling the vapours to below 60°C, or the outlet of the vent pipes is located
             3m away from a source of ignition;
cont'd
         •   the vent pipes are fitted with flame screens;

         •   there are no openings from the vapour space of the fuel tanks into machinery
             spaces (bolted manholes are acceptable) ;

         •   enclosed spaces are not located directly over such fuel tanks, except for vented
             cofferdams ;

         •   electrical equipment is not fitted in the vapour space of the tanks, unless it is
             certified to be intrinsically safe.




                                                                                             ▼
                                                                                             ▼




                                                   F35-2

                                                                            IACS Req. 1986, Rev.8 2005
                                 F36




F36   Deleted




                                 ▼
                                 ▼




                F36-1


                        IACS Req. 1996
F37 & F38




F37           UR F37 has been recategorised to be
              Recom 53.1 and deleted (May, 1998).




                                                      ▼
                                                      ▼
F38           F38 has been re-categorised to be Recom.
              53.2 and deleted (May 1998).




                                                      ▼
                                                      ▼




IACS Req. 1989, Rev. 1998
F37 & F38




F37           UR F37 has been recategorised to be
              Recom 53.1 and deleted (May, 1998).




                                                      ▼
                                                      ▼
F38           F38 has been re-categorised to be Recom.
              53.2 and deleted (May 1998).




                                                      ▼
                                                      ▼




IACS Req. 1989, Rev. 1998
                                                                      F39




F39          Measures to prevent explosions in
(1993)
(Rev. 1      cargo pump rooms on oil tankers
1994)
(Rev 2
1997)
(Rev. 2/     F 39 was deleted on 1 July 2002.
Corr. 1
1998)
(Rev.3
July 1999)
(Rev.4
May 2001)




                                                IACS Req. 1993, Rev. 4 2001
F40          Deleted 1997




                                                                                                                ▼
                                                                                                                ▼
F41          Sea intakes for fire pump on ships
(1993)
             with ICE Class
             1.     On ships with ICE Class at least one of the fire pumps is to be connected to a sea chest which is
             provided with de-icing arrangements.




                                                                                                                ▼
                                                                                                                ▼




IACS Req. 1997
F40          Deleted 1997




                                                                                                                ▼
                                                                                                                ▼
F41          Sea intakes for fire pump on ships
(1993)
             with ICE Class
             1.     On ships with ICE Class at least one of the fire pumps is to be connected to a sea chest which is
             provided with de-icing arrangements.




                                                                                                                ▼
                                                                                                                ▼




IACS Req. 1997
                                                                                                  F45



F45        Installation of BWMS on-board ships
(June 2021) 1      General

           1.1     Application

           1.1.1 This Unified Requirement details fire safety measures, in addition to that required by
           SOLAS II-2, related to the installation of Ballast Water Management Systems onboard any
           ship.

           This UR is to be read in conjunction with IACS UR M74 rev.2 - Ballast Water Management
           Systems.

           1.1.2 The requirements of this UR apply for BWMS technologies as listed in Table 1. BWMS
           with alternative technologies are to be specially considered by the Classification Society.

           1.2     Definitions

           1.2.1   Airlock

           An airlock is a space enclosed by gastight steel bulkheads with two gastight doors spaced not
           more than 2.5 m apart. The doors shall be self-closing without any holding back
           arrangements. Air locks shall have mechanical ventilation and shall not be used for other
           purposes. An audible and visual alarm system to give a warning on both sides of the air lock
           shall be provided to indicate if more than one door is moved from the closed position. The air
           lock space shall be monitored for dangerous gas as defined in UR M74 §2.3.

           1.2.2   Ballast Water Management System (BWMS)

           Ballast Water Management System means any system defined in paragraph 2.1 of UR M74,
           Rev.2.




           Note:

           1. This UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies for BWMS:

           i) For existing ships, where the application for approval for the [installation] plans of BWMS
           is dated on or after 1 July 2022; or
           ii) For new ships contracted for construction on or after 1 July 2022.

           2. The “contracted for construction” date means the date on which the contract to build the
           vessel is signed between the prospective owner and the shipbuilder. For further details
           regarding the date of “contracted for construction”, refer to IACS Procedural Requirement
           (PR) No.29.




                                               Page 1 of 9                             IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F45


         Table 1 - Categorization of BWMS technologies
F45      BWMS’s Technology category*                                                   1                                                   2                       3a                                               3b                                                         3c                                                       4                                5                                      6                                      7a                                                       7b                                                   8
(Cont)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    In-line de-oxygenation (injection of Inert Gas from Inert
                                                                                        or UV + Advanced Oxidation Technology (AOT) or UV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       separation tank and without Discharge treatment tank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In-line side-stream ozone injection without gas/liquid



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                separation tank and Discharge water treatment tank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In-tank pasteurization and de-oxygenation with N2
                                                                                                                                                                   In-line membrane separation and de-oxygenation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In-line side-stream ozone injection with gas/liquid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In-tank de-oxygenation with Inert Gas Generator
                                                                                                                                                                   (injection of N2 from a N2 Generator)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          In-line side stream electrolysis (2)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 In-line (stored) chemical injection
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         In-line full flow electrolysis
                                                                                        + TiO2 or UV + Plasma

                                                                                                                                            In-line Flocculation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gas Generator)
                                                                                        In-line UV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      generator
         Characteristics 

                                                Making use of active substance                                                                  X                                                                                                                                                                                               X                                 X                                      X                                              X                                                        X
           when de-ballasting when ballasting




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                In-tank technology: No treatment




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In-tank technology: No treatment
                              Des-infection




                                                Full flow of ballast water is passing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                when ballasting or de-ballasting




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      when ballasting or de-ballasting
                                                                                                           X                                    X                                 X                                                   X                                                                                                         X                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                through the BWMS
                                                Only a small part of ballast water is
                                                passing through the BWMS to                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                generate the active substance
                                                Full flow of ballast water is passing
                                                                                                           X                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X
                                                through the BWMS
           After-treatment




                                                Injection of neutralizer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X                                 X                                      X                                              X                                                        X

                                                Not required by the Type Approval
                                                Certificate issued by the                                                                       X                                 X
                                                Administration
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O2
         Examples of dangerous gas as defined in                                                                                                                           O2                                                                                                                                                            H2                               H2                                                                                                                                                                                                     O2
                                                                                                                                            (1)                                                                                                           CO2                                                                                                                                                     (1)                                                                              O3
         UR M74 §2.3                                                                                                                                                       N2                                                                                                                                                            Cl2                              Cl2                                                                                                                                                                                                    N2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N2
                                          Notes:
                                          (1) To be investigated on a case by case basis based on the result of the IMO (GESAMP) MEPC report for Basic and
                                          Final approval in accordance with the G9 Guideline.

                                          (2) In-line side stream electrolysis may also be applied in-tank in circulation mode (no treatment when ballasting or de-
                                          ballasting)

                                          Footnote: * Taking into consideration future developments of BWMS technologies, some additional technologies may
                                          be considered in this Table 1 by identifying their characteristics in the same manner as for the above BWMS cat.1, 2,
                                          3a, 3b, 3c, 4, 5, 6, 7a, 7b and 8.




                                                                                               Page 2 of 9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                F45


         1.2.3    Ballast Water Management Room (BWMR)
F45      A Ballast Water Management Room is any space containing equipment belonging to the
(Cont)   Ballast Water Management System. A space containing remote controls for the BWMS or a
         space dedicated to the storage of liquid or solid chemicals for BWMS need not be considered
         as a BWMR for the purposes of this UR.

         1.2.4    BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemicals.

         In general, BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemicals refer to:

             -    In-line flocculation (cat.2 as per Table 1),

             -    Chemical injection (cat.6 as per Table 1) and

             -    BWM technologies using neutralizers injection (cat.4, 5, 6 and 7 as per Table 1)

         BWMS that do not store, introduce or generate toxic or flammable chemicals may be specially
         considered as detailed in Table 2 below.

         Table 2: Requirements that may be reduced for BWMS storing, introducing or generating
         chemicals depending on the chemicals.


          Requirement Conditions to be met before reducing the requirement


                 2.3.4      The stored chemicals are neither toxic nor flammable


                 3.1.1      The BWMS does not use any flammable or toxic chemical substances

                            No dangerous gas as defined in UR M74 §2.3 will be generated by the
                 3.3.1
                            BWMS
                            No toxic chemical is stored and no toxic gas will be generated by the
                 6.1.1
                            BWMS
                 7.1.1
                 7.1.3      No toxic chemical is used or will be generated by the BWMS
                 7.1.6

         The IMO reports issued during the basic and final approval procedures of the BWMS that
         make use of active substances (G9 Guidelines) and ‘’safety hazard’’ as listed in Ch.17 of IMO
         IBC code are to be considered for this purpose.

         Note: Chemicals include additives for BWMS.




                                                  Page 3 of 9                        IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                      F45


         2         Fire categorization
F45      2.1       General
(Cont)
         BWMR shall be classified as follows for the purpose of applying the requirements of SOLAS
         Chapter II-2:

               •   BWMR containing oil-fired inert gas generators (i.e. BWMS cat.3b and 3c as per Table
                   1) shall be treated as machinery spaces of category A

               •   Other BWMR shall be considered as other machinery spaces and shall be
                   categorized, depending on the ship type (10) or (11) according to SOLAS II-2/9.2.2.3
                   or (7) according to SOLAS II-2/9.2.2.4, II-2/9.2.3 and II-2/9.2.4

         2.2       BWMS located in the cargo area of tankers

         Notwithstanding the above, where a BWMS is located in the cargo area of a tanker as
         allowed by UR M74, the BWMR shall be categorized as (8), a cargo pump-room, according to
         SOLAS II-2/9.2.4.2.2 for determining the extent of fire protection to be provided.

         Note: The cargo area of a tanker is defined in para 2.2 of UR M74 Rev.2.

         2.3       Storage of chemicals

         2.3.1 Spaces where the storage of liquid or solid chemicals for BWMS is intended shall be
         categorized as store-rooms for the purpose of applying the requirements of SOLAS Chapter
         II-2, i.e.:

               •   On passenger ships carrying more than 36 passengers:

                   - “Other spaces in which flammable liquids are stowed” as defined in SOLAS II-
                      2/9.2.2.3.2.2(14), if flammable products are stored

                   - “Store-rooms, workshops, pantries, etc.” as defined in SOLAS II-2/9.2.2.3.2.2(13)
                       otherwise

               •   On other ships:

                   - “Cargo pump-rooms” as defined in SOLAS II-2/9.2.4.2.2.2(8) if located in the cargo
                      area of a tanker

                   - “Service spaces (low risk)” as defined in SOLAS II-2/9.2.2.4.2.2(5), SOLAS II-
                       2/9.2.3.3.2.2(5) or II-2/9.2.4.2.2.2(5) if the surface area is less than 4m2 and if no
                       flammable products are stored

                   - “Service spaces (high risk)” as defined in SOLAS II-2/9.2.2.4.2.2(9), SOLAS II-
                       2/9.2.3.3.2.2(9) or II-2/9.2.4.2.2.2(9) otherwise

         Note: It is understood that only chemical injection (cat.6 as per Table 1), in-line flocculation
         (cat.2 as per Table 1) and technologies using neutralizer injection (cat.4, 5, 6 and 7 as per
         Table 1) will require chemical or additive storage.

         2.3.2 Where the storage of chemicals is foreseen in the same room as the ballast water
         management machinery, this room shall be considered both as a store-room and as a



                                                   Page 4 of 9                             IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                               F45


         machinery space in line with 2.1.
F45      2.3.3 When the chemical substances are stored inside integral tanks, the ship's shell plating
(Cont)   shall not form any boundary of the tank.

         2.3.4 Tanks containing chemicals shall be segregated from accommodation, service
         spaces, control stations, machinery spaces not related to the BWMS and from drinking water
         and stores for human consumption by means of a cofferdam, void space, cargo pump-room,
         empty tank, oil fuel storage tank, BWMR or other similar space. On-deck stowage of
         permanently attached deck tanks or installation of independent tanks in otherwise empty hold
         spaces should be considered as satisfying this provision.


         3         BWMR location and boundaries

         3.1       BWMS using chemical substances

         3.1.1 For BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemicals, the BWMR and chemical
         substance storage rooms are not to be located in the accommodation area. Any ventilation
         exhaust or other openings from these rooms shall be located not less than 3m from
         entrances, air inlets and openings to accommodation spaces.
         This requirement need not apply in case the BWMS is located in the engine room.

         3.2       Ozone-based BWMS

         3.2.1 Ozone-based BWMS – i.e. cat.7a and 7b - shall be located in dedicated compartment,
         separated from any other space by gastight boundaries. Access to the BWMR from any other
         enclosed space shall be through airlock only, except if the only access to that space is from
         the open deck.

         Access to the ozone based BWMR may be provided through the engine room only provided:

               •   Access from the engine room to the BWMR is through airlock and,
               •   An alarm repeater is provided in the BWMR, which will repeat any alarm activated in
                   the engine room.

         3.2.2 A sign shall be affixed on the door providing personnel with a warning that ozone may
         be present and with the necessary instructions to be followed before entering the room

         3.3       General

         3.3.1 BWMR containing equipment for BWMS of the following types shall be equipped with
         tested gastight and self-closing doors without any holding back arrangements:

               •   BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemical substances
               •   De-oxygenation based on inert gas generator
               •   Electrolysis
               •   Ozone injection

         Doors leading to the open deck need however not to be self-closing.




                                                Page 5 of 9                          IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                F45


         4       Fire fighting
F45      4.1     Fixed fire-extinguishing system
(Cont)
         4.1.1 Where fitted, fixed fire extinguishing systems shall comply with the relevant provisions
         of the Fire Safety Systems Code

         4.1.2   Ozone-based BWMS

         BWMR containing equipment related to ozone-based BWMS shall be provided with a fixed
         fire extinguishing system suitable for category A machinery spaces and capable of manual
         release.

         4.1.3 Where a fixed fire-extinguishing system is provided in the BWMR, it should be
         compatible with the BWMS and the chemical products that are used, produced or stored in
         the BWMR. Specific attention shall be paid to potential chemical reactions between the fire
         extinguishing medium and chemical products used for water treatment.

         Especially, water-based fire-extinguishing systems should be avoided in case of sulfuric acid
         storage.

         4.1.4 Foam fixed fire-extinguishing system
         For all kinds of BWMS, in case a foam fire extinguishing system is installed in the BWMR, its
         efficiency shall not be impaired by chemicals used by the BWMS where relevant.

         4.1.5 Where a fixed fire-extinguishing system is installed in the BWMR, automatic shutdown
         of the BWMS upon release of the fixed fire extinguishing system shall be arranged. Any need
         for cooldown necessary for safe shutdown to be considered in the shutdown sequence.

         4.1.6 Where BWMS that includes air or O2 storage is located in a room covered by a fixed
         gas fire-extinguishing system, air or O2 storage shall be taken into account for the gas
         capacity calculation, unless the discharge pipe from safety valves for air or O2 storage are led
         directly to outside the room.

         4.2     Portable fire-fighting equipment

         4.2.1 There shall be at least one portable fire extinguisher that complies with the provisions
         of the Fire Safety Systems Code and suitable for electrical fires in the BWMR containing UV-
         type BWMS.


         5       Fire prevention

         5.1     Equipment protection

         5.1.1   Overcurrent or overvoltage protection is to be installed to protect UV type BWMS.

         5.1.2 Electrolysis reactors are to be provided with at least with two independent means of
         monitoring operation. The monitoring system shall initiate audible and visual alarms and
         automatic shutdown of the BWMS in the event that an anomaly is detected. Requirements for
         shutdown arrangement are clarified in UR M74. 3.1.9.

         Note: If a pressure relief valve is also provided, the vent of this valve is to be led to a safe
         location on the open deck, as clarified in UR M74. The valve should be positioned to optimally
         remove gas from the electrolysis reactor.


                                               Page 6 of 9                           IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                    F45


         5.2       Fire detection
F45      5.2.1 A fixed fire detection and fire alarm system complying with the provisions of the Fire
(Cont)   Safety Systems Code shall be installed in spaces containing an inert gas generator or an
         ozone generator.

         5.2.2 A section of fire detectors which covers a control station, a service space or an
         accommodation space is not to include a BWMR containing equipment related to ozone
         based BWMS.


         6         Ventilation

         6.1       Ventilation arrangement

         6.1.1 The ventilation systems for BWMR containing BWMS of the following types shall be
         independent of the ventilation systems serving any other spaces:

               •   BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemical substances.
               •   De-oxygenation, including pasteurization and de-oxygenation (cat.3 and cat.8 as per
                   Table 1)
               •   Electrolysis
               •   Ozone injection

         6.1.2 The ventilation exhaust for BWMR containing a nitrogen generator shall be located in
         the lower part of the room in order to efficiently evacuate dangerous gases – as defined in UR
         M74 §2.3 - heavier than air.

         6.1.3 The ventilation exhaust for BWMR containing electrolysis systems shall be located so
         as to be able to efficiently evacuate dangerous gases – as defined in UR M74 §2.3 - that
         could be generated during the electrolysis process. Due regard shall be paid to the expected
         quantity and density of such gases when designing the ventilation exhaust.

         6.1.4 The following requirements apply to ventilation ducts serving BWMR for ozone-based
         BWMS:

               •   The part of the ducts located outside of the BWMR shall be made of steel having a
                   thickness of at least 3 mm for ducts with a free cross-sectional area of less than 0.075
                   m2, at least 4 mm for ducts with a free cross-sectional area of between 0.075 m2 and
                   0.45 m2, and at least 5 mm for ducts with a free cross-sectional area of over 0.45 m2;
                   and

               •   The ducts shall be suitably supported and stiffened

               •   The outside openings of the ducts shall be fitted with protective screens of not more
                   than 13 mm square mesh.

         6.1.5 The ventilation system for BWMR containing ozone-based BWMS or ventilation
         system for hydrogen de gas arrangement as required by UR M74 3.3.1.5 shall be interlocked
         with the BWMS such that:

               •   In case of loss of ventilation (primary and secondary), a visual and audible alarm shall
                   be triggered both inside and outside the BWMR and at a place where a responsible
                   member of the crew is on duty. If the ventilation is not restored after a pre-set time, the



                                                  Page 7 of 9                             IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                 F45


                   BWMS shall then be automatically shut down. Any need for cooldown necessary for
F45                safe shutdown is to be considered in the shutdown sequence.

(Cont)         •   It shall not be possible to start the BWMS without the ventilation running

         For ventilation systems serving BWMR and containing or conveying a dangerous gas,
         relevant requirements in UR M74 3.3 are to be satisfied.

         6.2       Ventilation rate

         6.2.1     An adequate power ventilation system shall be provided in enclosed BWMR.

         6.2.2 The ventilation capacity shall be at least 30 air changes per hour where explosive or
         toxic gases may be generated during operation of the BWMS. The IMO reports issued during
         the basic and final approval procedures of the BWMS that make use of active substances (G9
         Guidelines) and ‘’safety hazard’’ as listed in Ch.17 of IBC code are to be used as references
         for identifying those cases.

         6.2.3     The ventilation capacity may be reduced as follows:

               •   Flocculation-type BWMS                                    6 air changes per hour

               •   De-oxygenation, incl. pasteurization and
                   de-oxygenation (cat.3 and cat.8 as per Table 1)           6 air changes per hour

               •   Full flow electrolysis                                    6 air changes per hour

               •   Side-stream electrolysis                                  20 air changes per hour

               •   Ozone injection                                           20 air changes per hour

               •   Chemical injection                                        6 air changes per hour

         Note: More stringent ventilation capacity requirements may arise from other regulations e.g.
         IBC Code requirements for spaces located in the cargo area.


         7         Personal equipment

         7.1.1 Suitable protection equipment shall be available onboard for the protection of the crew
         members who are engaged in the servicing, maintenance and repair of BWMS storing,
         introducing or generating chemicals, as recommended by the product manufacturers. The
         protection equipment shall consist of large aprons, special gloves with long sleeves, suitable
         footwear, coveralls of chemical-resistant materials, and tight fitting goggles or face shields or
         both. The protective clothing and equipment shall cover all skin so that no part of the body is
         unprotected. This protection equipment is to be provided separately without taking into
         account equipment required by other mandatory requirements.

         7.1.2 Work clothes and protective equipment shall be kept in easily accessible places and in
         special lockers. Such equipment shall not be kept within accommodation spaces, with the
         exception of new, unused equipment and equipment which has not been used since
         undergoing a thorough cleaning process. Notwithstanding the above, storage rooms for such
         equipment within accommodation spaces if adequately segregated from living spaces such
         as cabins, passageways, dining rooms, bathrooms, etc.



                                                 Page 8 of 9                            IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                               F45


         7.1.3 When a BWMS storing, introducing or generating chemicals is installed on board,
F45      suitably marked decontamination showers and an eyewash shall be available in a convenient
         location in close proximately to the BWMS and the chemical store room(s).
(Cont)
         7.1.4 An emergency escape breathing apparatus (EEBD) is to be provided in the BWMR.
         This emergency escape breathing apparatus may be one of the EEBDs provided in
         accordance with the requirements of SOLAS II-2/13.

         An EEBD need not be required for BWMS of cat.1 as per Table 1.

         7.1.5 A personal ozone detector, calibrated as per the manufacturer’s specifications, shall
         be provided for each person engaged in the servicing, maintenance and repair of BWMS
         utilizing ozone.

         7.1.6 A two-way portable radiotelephone apparatus dedicated for the BWMS service,
         maintenance and repair shall be provided, in addition to those required by SOLAS for fire-
         fighting purposes. This two-way radiotelephone apparatus is to be properly identified in order
         to avoid mix-up with the apparatus intended for fire-fighting operations. Where the BWMS
         may release explosive gases, this two-way radiotelephone apparatus shall be of a certified
         safe type suitable for use in zone 1 hazardous areas, as defined in IEC Publication 60079.
         Where the BWMS stores, utilizes or introduces chemicals, the apparatus shall undergo deep
         cleaning or de-contamination after use.

         A two-way portable radiotelephone apparatus need not be required for BWMS of cat.1 as per
         Table 1.


                                                                                      End of
                                                                                      Document




                                              Page 9 of 9                           IACS Req. 2021
                                                                                                F46



F46          Low pressure CO2 piping system
(Aug 2021)   (FSS Code Ch.5.2.2)

             Where a low-pressure CO2 system is fitted, the piping system is to be designed in such a way
             that the CO2 pressure at the nozzles should not be less than 1 N/mm2.




             Note:

             1. This Unified Requirement is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships
                constructed on or after 1 July 2022.



                                                                                       End of
                                                                                       Document




                                                Page 1 of 1                           IACS Req. 2021
F4–F5




F4           Deleted




                                                                                                                  ▼
                                                                                                                  ▼
F5           Pump room alarms
(1971)
(Rev. 1
1973)
             Where audible alarms are fitted to warn of the release of fire extinguishing medium into pump rooms,
             they may be of the pneumatic type or electric type.

             (a)   Pneumatically operated alarms

                   In cases where the periodic testing of such alarms is required,CO2 operated alarms should not be
                   used owing to the possibility of the generation of static electricity in the CO2 cloud. Air operated
                   alarms may be used provided the air supply is clean and dry.

             (b)   Electrically operated alarms

                   When electrically operated alarms are used, the arrangements are to be such that the electric
                   actuating mechanism is located outside the pump room except where the alarms are certified
                   intrinsically safe.

             It was further agreed that the use of CO2 operated alarms should be discouraged.




                                                                                                                  ▼
                                                                                                                  ▼




IACS Req. 1987
F4–F5




F4           Deleted




                                                                                                                  ▼
                                                                                                                  ▼
F5           Pump room alarms
(1971)
(Rev. 1
1973)
             Where audible alarms are fitted to warn of the release of fire extinguishing medium into pump rooms,
             they may be of the pneumatic type or electric type.

             (a)   Pneumatically operated alarms

                   In cases where the periodic testing of such alarms is required,CO2 operated alarms should not be
                   used owing to the possibility of the generation of static electricity in the CO2 cloud. Air operated
                   alarms may be used provided the air supply is clean and dry.

             (b)   Electrically operated alarms

                   When electrically operated alarms are used, the arrangements are to be such that the electric
                   actuating mechanism is located outside the pump room except where the alarms are certified
                   intrinsically safe.

             It was further agreed that the use of CO2 operated alarms should be discouraged.




                                                                                                                  ▼
                                                                                                                  ▼




IACS Req. 1987
                                                                                                              F6




F6       Standardization of flash points
(1971)
(Rev 1
1996)
         In context of these Unified Requirements, oil tankers shall be considered as vessels capable of carrying
         oil having a flash point not exceeding 60°C (closed cup test).




                                                                                                            ▼
                                                                                                            ▼




                                                                                       IACS Req. 1971/Rev 1 1996
                                                                                                       F7



F7
 Ax          Portable instruments for measuring oxygen and
(1971)
 (cont)
(Rev.1
             flammable vapour concentrations
1989)
(Rev.2
May 1999)    Every oil tanker is to be provided with at least two portable gas detectors capable of
(Rev.3       measuring flammable vapour concentrations in air (%LEL) and at least two portable O2
June 2020)   analysers. Alternatively, at least two gas detectors, each capable of measuring both oxygen
(Corr.1      and flammable vapour concentrations in air (%LEL), are to be provided.
Nov 2020)
             In addition, for tankers fitted with inert gas systems, at least two portable gas detectors are to
             be capable of measuring concentrations of flammable vapours in inerted atmosphere (% gas
             by volume).




             Note:

             1. Rev.3 of this UR is to be uniformly implemented by IACS Societies on ships contracted for
                construction on or after 1 July 2021.



                                                                                                End of
                                                                                                Document



                                                    Page 1 of 1          IACS Req. 1971/Rev.3 Corr.1 2020
                                                                                                  F8



F8
A2       Pressurisation of cargo tanks
(1971)
(cont)
(Rev.1   PV valves to oil tanks should not be set at pressures in excess of 0,21 bar unless the tank
1989)    scantlings have been specially considered.




                                                                                      End of
                                                                                      Document



                                               Page 1 of 1            IACS Req. 1971/Rev.1 1989
                                                                                               F9



F9
A2       Lighting and sighting ports in pump
(1971)
(cont)   room/engine room bulkheads
         Deleted Dec 2013.


         (According to Members’ experience, the use of lighting and sighting ports is now obsolete.
         Ref: 13246_IGb)




                                                                                     End of
                                                                                     Document



                                              Page 1 of 1                          IACS Req. 1971
